# Summary_and_Response_Document_(SARD)

School of Computing Science   Summary and Response Document   (SARD)  Course name:   Machine Learning and   Artificial   Intelligence for Data Scientists (M)  Academic Session:   2023 - 2024  EvaSys questionnaire response rate:   49 of 218 (22.5%)  Summary of   student  comments  Response from Academic Staff   Action c ompletion  date   (actual or  expected,   if  required)  Action  owner  Positive feedback  Different machine  learning algorithms  and their practical  implementation in the  lab exercises.  We’ll   keep this format and look out  for opportunities to improve.  It's very useful for  looking for a job in the  future.  We are glad that the student found  this course useful  The course structure  was good  We’ll keep this format and look out  for opportunities to improve.  The curriculum and  additional material  with the derivations.  We’ll keep this format and look out  for opportunities to improve.  Issues raised in EvaSys questionnaires  A bit more lab work  before the project  week can be included  as   coursework for  each topic.  Good suggestion. We are keen to  avoid over assess during the course.  I’ll explore ways to add more content  to the labs.  Sep 2024   Lecturers  Coding or solutions  can be used while  teaching, to show  how the results  shown have been  derived.  We will explain more coding during  the lectures and labs. We do have  detaile d derivations as supplementary  materials. We will make clear and  easy for student to find on   Moodle .  Sep 2024   Lecturers  the lack of  approaching ml using  dataframes professors  not teaching skills for  a corporate workplace  by teaching the most  used algorithms in the  world -   bagging and  boosting using  decision trees by  teaching EDA  While we agree with the comment on  the usefulness of these aspect, we  have to make a cho ice on the topics  we could cover, balancing on the  length and depth of the course.   We  will state more clearly about the  relevance of the covered topics.  Sep 2024   Lecturers  This course serves as  an introduction to  machine learning, so  Our goal is for students to be able to  apply the algorithm on practical  problems. The case studies are  Sep 2024   Lecturers
the knowledge  provided is quite  broad. I feel confused  about the practical  application of the  course knowledge.  Additionally, the  course only covers the  theoretical aspects,  while the  experimental  assignments require  code implementation.  The transition  bet ween these two  aspects is not well -  guided in this course,  making me feel a bit  disconnected.  designed for this.   We will emphasis  the real world relevance of the topics.  Maybe the lecturers  can slow down a little  during the class.  We will moderate our delivery speed.   Sep 2024   Lecturers  Give students more  time   to complete the  coursework  We’ll coordinate with guest lecturers  to explore ways to release the case  studies earlier.  Sep 2024   Lecturers  Issues raised at staff - student liaison meetings  They felt the course  was quite enjoyable  but difficult with  advanced  mathematics and lots  of algorithms.  The math has been reduced to the  bare minimum. We don’t think it can  be reduced further while keeping the  quality of the course. We’ll explore  ways to further improve accessibility  of math related materials.  Nov 2023   Lecturers  They felt the lectures  were very long (2  hours) and mostly  involved lecturer  reading out slides /  explaining material  with students  potentially being  quite passive   -   so  difficult to keep focus  over the full 2 hours.  They felt it would be  good   to have some  student involvement  (I presume activity)  during the lectures to  help keep focus.  Good suggestion. We will explore  ways to improve student involvement  during lectures  Nov 2023   Lecturers
Context statement from the Course Leader (optional):
