# SoCS_MSc_Handbook_2025-26

MSc Handbook  (General)  202 5 - 202 6  For all MSc CS+ and MSc IT+ programmes  Disclaimer  Although the information contained in this document is believed to be accurate at the  time of writing, changes in circumstances may require modifications during the year.  Last Updated   9 September   2025
Contents  Welcome to SoCS @ Glasgow!   1  1   -   The University   2  1.1   -   Registration and Student Status   2  1.2   -   Student Number & GUID   2  1.3   -   University Systems   3  1.4   -   Gilmorehill Campus   4  2   -   The School of Computing Science   5  2.1   -   MSc Programmes at SoCS   5  2.2   -   MSc Programme Structure   6  2.3   -   Academic Year Calendar   7  3   -   Enrolment   8  3.1   -   Enrolment Support   8  3.2   -   SoCS Procedures   8  3.3   -   Clashes and Lab Changes   9  4   -   Study and Attainment on SoCS MSc Programmes   10  4.1   -   Attendance and Study Expectations   10  4.2   -   Course Materials and Recording of Timetabled Sessions   11  4.3   -   Credits and Grades   11  4.3.2   -   Assessment bands   13  4.3.3   -   Course Grade Calculation   14  4.3.4   -   GPA Calculation   15  4.4   -   Progression to the MSc Project   16  5   -   Assessment   1 7  5.1   -   Coursework   17  5.2   -   Examinations   18  5.2.1   -   Resit Examinations   18  5.2.1.8   -   Resit enrolment   19  5.2.2   -   Feedback   19  5.3   -   MSc Project   20  5.4   -   Ratification by the Exam Board   21  5.5   -   Student Conduct   21
6   -   Awards   22  6.1   -   Award of MSc   22  6.2   -   Exit Awards   22  6.3   -   Academic Appeals   22  7   -   Graduation   23  8   -   Communication at UofG and SoCS   24  8.1   -   Communication Channels   24  8.2   -   Staff Communication   25  8.3   -   Advice   –   Sources & Limitations   25  8.4   -   Staff - Student Liaison Committees   27  8.5   -   Student Feedback   27  8.6   -   Complaints   28  8.7   -   Gift Policy   29  9   -   Student Visas   30  9.1   -   Graduate Visas   30  10   -   Student Support   31  10.1   -   Student Support Officer   31  10.2   -   Central Support Services   31  11   -   The Student Representative Council (SRC)   35  12   -   University Administration Information   36  13   -   Important Websites   39  Appendix 1   -   Campus Map   42  Appendix 2   -   Enrolment Requirements by Programme   43  Appendix 3   -   School Plagiarism Policy   47  Appendix 4   –   Complete Progression and Award Requirements   53
Welcome to SoCS @ Glasgow! You have chosen to study in one of the top 1% of  Universities in the world according to the Times and Guardian University Rankings. This  will be a challenging journey, but we are here to guide and support you through your  postgra duate studies. We look forward to working with you.  We have gathered information here to help you throughout your time at Glasgow. SoCS  MSc students are required to read this document in full . Please refer to this document  first if you have any queries about your programme. 1
1   -   The University  1.0.1   -   The University of Glasgow (UofG) was founded in 1451 by a Papal Bull requested  by King James II of Scotland, and is the fourth oldest University in the English - speaking  world. For more than 570 years the University has been a worldwide centre of teaching,  research, and innovation, and still consistently ranks in the top 100 Universities around  the world today. As a new entrant to UofG, you are joining a long and rich tradition of  learning, and we hope your journey with the University will be a deepl y rewarding one.  1.1   -   Registration and Student Status  1.1.1   -   The final stage in becoming a UofG student is Registration. Registration for  SoCS MSc students opened on 11 August 2025. Before you can enrol, you must  register via MyCampus. You can find information on Registration from the Registry’s  webpages here   -  https://www.gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/registry/registration/  1.1.2   -   Registration is in two parts, Academic and Financial. Academic registration  involves confirming the details of your degree programme and personal information.  Financial registration is the process by which you will pay, or arrange to pay, your  fees. Only w hen at least one element of registration is complete can students begin  to enrol in their courses. If you are experiencing difficulty in completing registration,  please contact the Registration Enrolment & Support Team   -  https://www.gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/students/sset/rest/  1.2   -   Student Number & GUID  1.2.1   -   When your UofG profile is created, you will be assigned a 7 - digit student  number. This student number, plus the initial of your family name, forms your ‘GUID’.  For example, Jane Smith has the student number 3099999, and the GUID  3099999S.  1.2.2   -   You will find that different systems and circumstances sometimes require one  or the other. The two terms are often used interchangeably, however as a rule you  should provide the 7 - digit number when asked for your student number, and the  number plus initial   when asked for your GUID.  1.2.3   -   Matters concerning your status as a University of Glasgow student, including  registration, graduation, and transcripts, are administered by the Registry   -  https://www.gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/registry/ 2
1.3   -   University Systems  1.3.1   -   There are multiple systems employed by the University. The most immediately  relevant of these systems are as follows:  MyCampus   –   (via MyGlasgow Student Portal   -  https://www.gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/students/ )  1.3.2   -   The University’s central records system. You will access this system to  complete registration, enrol, view your timetable, and receive your course and  degree outcomes when these are published.  Email   -   https://www.gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/it/uofgemail/  1.3.3   -   Your Account Access Notification email should contain details of how to  log in to your student email account. Your student email address will always be  <Your GUID>@student.gla.ac.uk. Students are expected to check their student  email account on a daily bas is throughout the academic year.  Moodle   -   https://moodle.gla.ac.uk/login/index.php  1.3.4   -   This is the University’s online classroom system. Each course has its own  Moodle page containing course information, announcements, recommended  reading, learning materials, coursework, and the course exam. You can also view  your component grades (see below ) on Moodle. You will be automatically enrolled  to the Moodle of any course you enrol to on MyCampus, and also to the MSc  Handbook Moodle, which is the main source of information about the MSc  Programmes generally. Enrolment to the relevant Moodle   can take up to 48 hours  from the time of enrolment on MyCampus.  Your login details for Moodle are the same that you have been given for  MyCampus: your login will be the seven digits of your student number followed by  the first character of your surname (e.g., 3099999S) and your password has  already been sent to you.  Apps   -   https://www.gla.ac.uk/apps/  1.3.5.1   -   T here are a number of apps made available by the University to help you  in your time with the University   –   the most important of these are  1.3.5.2   -   Safe Zone   –   a general security app, providing help and real - time  support where necessary, this app is also used by Student Visa holders to  record their attendance  1.3.5.3   -   UofG Life   –   displays your courses and timetable, helps with campus  navigation, and allows room booking 3
1.4   -   Gilmorehill Campus  1.4.1   -   The University’s main campus is Gilmorehill, which is where all teaching on  your programme will take place. You can find interactive campus maps at  https://www.gla.ac.uk/explore/maps/ ,   or a simple map at Appendix   1 . You will find  your lecture venues listed on your timetable (see below), which will allow you to refer  to the map and establish the location of your lectures.  1.4.2   -   You should familiarise yourself with the whole campus, and can even take  advantage of our campus tours   -  https://www.gla.ac.uk/explore/visit/campustours/prospectivestudents/  1.4.3.1   -   Other than lecture venues, the key buildings you should be aware of are as  follows:  1.4.3.2   -   Sir Alwyn Williams Building (SAWB)   –   named for the former Principal of  the University, this is the home of SoCS, including academic and administrative  offices, support services, and conference rooms.  1.4.3.3   -   Boyd Orr Building   –   named for Baron Boyd Orr of Brechin Mearns,  University alumnus and world - leading scientist, the Boyd Orr Building is the main  location for computer labs in the College of Science & Engineering. Located  directly opposite the front entrance of SAWB, all o f your lab classes will take place  in this building.  1.4.3.4   -   University Library   –   one of the most extensive libraries in Scotland, the  University Library provides you with access to a huge range of print and online  learning resources. The Library also includes general, individual, and group study  spaces, the home of the University’s   central IT Helpdesk team, and catering  outlets.  1.4.3.5   -   James McCune Smith Learning & Teaching Hub (JMS)   –   named for our  famous alumnus, the first Black person to be awarded a medical degree by a  major European University, the JMS includes lecture theatres, study spaces, and  the principal catering outlet on campus. The JMS is directly adjacent to the Boyd  Or r Building.  1.4.3.6   -   John McIntyre Building   –   named for our alumnus and pioneer of radiology,  the John McIntyre Building is best known as the home of the Student  Representative Council (SRC), an independent student - led organisation providing  support, guidance, and representation to the student popu lation at UofG. You can  find more information about the SRC below. 4
2   -   The School of Computing Science  2.0.1   -   Part of the College of Science & Engineering, the School of Computing Science  (SoCS   /   ‘ the School ’ ) at UofG has been a centre for computing science research and  teaching since 1957, when UofG became the first University in Scotland to have an  electronic computer. Since that time we have built an international reputation for  excellence in the discipline , producing world - leading research in areas such as  Algorithms, Human - Computer Interaction, and Information Retrieval, and continue to  expand cutting - edge res earch in new technologies such as Artificial Intelligence. The  School has consistently ranked among the best in the UK, and was recently ranked 6th  in the UK for Computer Science in the Times Sunday Times Good University Guide 2025.  2.1   -   MSc Programmes at SoCS  2.1.1   -   SoCS offers five MSc Programmes. We have three specialist programmes,  intended for students with an undergraduate degree in Computing Science or a closely  related discipline. Together, these programmes are referred to as ‘CS+’:  •   MSc Computing Science (MSc CS)  •   MSc Data Science (MSc DS)  •   MSc Cyber s ecurity (MSc C s ec)  2.1.2   -   We offer two conversion MSc programmes, intended for students with an  undergraduate degree in another discipline, which are collectively referred to as ‘IT+’:  •   MSc Information Technology (MSc IT)  •   MSc Software Development (MSc SD)  2.1.3   -   Each MSc Programme is overseen by a   Programme Director :  MSc Computing Science   –   Dr Yehia Elkhatib ( Yehia.Elkhatib@glasgow.ac.uk )  MSc Data Science   –   Dr Iraklis Klampanos ( Iraklis.Klampanos@glasgow.ac.uk )  MSc Cyber s ecurity   –   Prof Shahid Raza ( Shahid.Raza@glasgow.ac.uk )   / Prof Jeremy  Singer ( Jeremy.Singer@glasgow.ac.uk )  MSc Information Technology / Software Development   –   Dr Euan Freeman  ( Euan.Freeman@glasgow.ac.uk )  2.1.4   -   The administration of your programme is performed by the SoCS Admin Team  (also known as the Student Support & Enquiries Team), based at the Teaching Office,  Rm 102 SAWB (first on the left from the main entrance). You can visit the SoCS Admin  Team in person   or contact them via the   SoCS Helpdesk . Your principal administrative  contact is our PGT Administrator, Graeme Shedden  ( Graeme.Shedden@glasgow.ac.uk ) .   Unless specified, the SoCS Admin Team operate  a response target of three working days. 5
2.2   -   MSc Programme Structure  2.2.1   -   The MSc programmes consist of a taught stage (assessed over 120 credits) and  a project stage (60 credits). The taught stage consists of several courses delivered over  Semesters 1 and 2. For most programmes, there are a mixture of compulsory and  elective (o ptional) courses (with the exception of MSc C s ec, for which all courses are  compulsory). Assessment of the taught stage consists of a combination of in - class  tests, assessed coursework exercises, and exams taken in December (for all Semester  1 cour ses) or April/May (for all Semester 2 courses).  2.2.2   -   Students must complete both the taught and project stages to be awarded the  degree of MSc. Only students who have met their progression requirements in the  Taught courses (see below) are permitted to progress to the Project stage, which takes  place from Ju ne until September.   Throughout the Taught stage, the grades students  achieve will form their Grade Point Average (GPA   –   see below), which is an important  element in progression.  2.2.3   -   Students who do not meet their progression requirements may be eligible for an  exit award (Postgraduate Diploma or Postgraduate Certificate   -   see below). 6
Week   Beginning Monday   Week   Beginning Monday  0   Orientation   15 September   26   Semester 2   16 March 1   Semester 1   22 September   27   Semester 2   23 March 2   Semester 1   29 September   28   Vacation   30 March 3   Semester 1   6 October   29   Vacation   6 April 4   Semester 1   13 October   30   Vacation   13 April 5   Semester 1   20 October   31   Revision   20 April 6   Semester 1   27 October   32   Revision/exams   27 April 7   Semester 1   3 November   33   Revision/exams   4 May 8   Semester 1   10 November   34   Revision/exams   11 May 9   Semester 1   17 November   35   Revision/exams   18 May 10   Semester 1   24 November   36   Vacation   25 May 11   Semester 1   1 December   37   Vacation   1 June 12   Revision/exams   8 December   38   Vacation   8 June 13   Revision/exams   15 December   39   Semester 3   15 June 14   Vacation   22 December   40   Semester 3   22 June 15   Vacation   29 December   41   Semester 3   29 June 16   Vacation   5 January   42   Semester 3   6 July 17   Semester 2   12 January   43   Semester 3   13 July 18   Semester 2   19 January   44   Semester 3   20 July 19   Semester 2   26 January   45   Semester 3   27 July 20   Semester 2   2 February   46 Semester 3 / Resit Exams   3 August 21   Semester 2   9 February   47 Semester 3 / Resit Exams   10 August 22   Semester 2   16 February   48 Semester 3 / Resit Exams   17 August 23   Semester 2   23 February   49   Semester 3   24 August 24   Semester 2   2 March   50   Semester 3   31 August 25   Semester 2   9 March   51   Semester 3   7 September  2.3 - Academic Year 2025/26 7
3   -   Enrolment  3.0.1   -   Please refer to Appendix   2   for details of your available course selections. It is very  important that you enrol only to courses available to your degree programme, and that  you enrol to the correct course code (many courses have different versions with similar  names, only one of wh ich will be applicable to your programme). Students who enrol to  an incorrect course or incorrect version will be removed from the course and will not  have priority over any other student for a place on any other course.  3.0.2   -   In order to enrol to courses, you must have completed at least one part of your  registration (Academic or Financial). Enrolment to SoCs courses will open in mid -  August, and registered students will be notified by email. Your compulsory courses will  be enro lled by the SoCS Admin team. You will enrol your elective courses yourself via  MyCampus ( https://www.gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/registry/enrolment/ ).  3.1   -   Enrolment Support  3.1.1   -   For guidance on the enrolment process within MyCampus, please contact the  Registration and Enrolment Support team  ( https://www.gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/students/sset/rest/ ).  3.1.2   -   The SoCS Admin team can also provide assistance with enrolment via the   SoCS  Helpdesk ,   and will   also   operate enrolment drop - in sessions 10am   –   12pm on Tuesdays  and Thursdays from w/b 18 August until the start of teaching in Boyd Orr Lab 1028  (BO1028).  3.2   -   SoCS Procedures  3.2.1   -   SoCS will not operate waiting lists for elective courses. Should a course become  full, any places which later become free (e.g. by an expansion of capacity or dropping of  the course by other students) will be available on a first - come - first - served basis to   all  eligible students via MyCampus. The SoCS Admin team will not facilitate swaps  between students, or the transfer of a place to another specified student.  3.2.2   -   You are advised to complete as much of your enrolment as possible yourself, and  to complete enrolment as soon as possible. Many elective courses are expected to be  full prior to the commencement of teaching, so the sooner you complete enrolment, the  greate r your chance of enrolling to all of your preferred electives. Enquiries received via  the   SoCS Helpdesk   will be responded to within 5 working days during the enrolment  period. If one or more of your preferred courses fill up during this response period, or  while you await a drop - in session in BO1028, you will not have priority for a place on the  course(s) ov er those students who have successfully enrolled themselves.  3.2.3   -   You must be enrolled to all 180 credits of your MSc programme on MyCampus by  the start of Week 3 (6 October 2025), that is 120 credits of taught courses and the 60 8
credit MSc project. You will have a limited opportunity to change your Semester 2  elective courses later in the academic year, subject to the availability of courses.  3.2.4   -   You are advised to exercise great care when enrolling, particularly with regard to  dropping courses. Where students drop courses, even in error, they will not have priority  over any other student for a place on any course.  3.3   -   Clashes and Lab Changes  3.3.1   -   Although we endeavour to ensure that clashes in the timetable are kept to a  minimum, unfortunately some clashes are inevitable each year due to the range of  courses offered. Most apparent clashes can be resolved by selecting a different lab,  however some c lashes (those where the lecture of one course clashes with the lecture  or all available labs of another) are unresolvable.  3.3. 2 .1   -   You may find that a preferred elective course has space in the lecture, but  not in a lab that fits your timetable. In this situation, you can ask the SoCS Admin  team can to investigate whether space can be made available in your required lab,  either at the   enrolment drop - ins or via the   SoCS Helpdesk .   We cannot guarantee that  this will be available.  3.3. 2 .2   -   You may also find that a course has spaces, but that you require to change  an existing lab on your timetable. If the course you are already enrolled to is not full,  proceed to change the lab yourself via MyCampus. If the course you are already  enrolled to   is full, you should request the lab change via the SoCS Admin Team. If you  unenrol from a full course, you will not have priority over any other student for a place  on that course.  3.3. 2 .3   -   In the two situations noted above, as with general enrolment, any delay  within the   SoCS Helpdesk   response period or awaiting a drop - in session will not  give you priority for a place on   any   course.  3.3. 3   -   Please also note that it may become necessary for the SoCS Admin team to  move you from one lab to another within a course. Where this is necessary, eligible  students will be selected at random. This will only ever be done in order to maximise  the availabil ity of places to the cohort, and maximising participation will take  precedence over other scheduling preferences. Students should expect to attend  scheduled classes at any time Mon - Fri, 9am   –   6pm, and necessary lab changes will be  made regardless o f your existing timetable. It is likely that most students will  experience this at least once, so please be prepared. 9
4   -   Study and   Attainment   on SoCS MSc Programmes  4.1   -   Attendance and Study Expectations  4.1.1   -   Full time students should expect to spend five full working days engaging with  courses each week during term time. Depending on your chosen elective courses, you  may expect to be engaging in learning activities on most weekdays and additional  independent s tudy will also be required. It is not advised for MSc students to also  engage in full time employment or internships during the MSc programme.  4.1.2   -   Your timetable will be available on MyCampus and the UofG Life app  ( https://www.gla.ac.uk/apps/uofglife/ ).   You must attend all the timetabled classes  from the beginning of Week 1.  4.1.3   -   Each core and elective course will usually have around 2 - 4 lectures per week,  although some courses may also have additional tutorials or lab sessions if  appropriate. Lecturers may provide or suggest extra reading material, but Masters level  students are e xpected to be proactive in finding further material to enhance study.  4.1.4   -   The University has a legal responsibility to monitor attendance and has issued  the following guideline:  “All students are expected to attend all their timetabled learning and teaching  sessions and to report absences as set out in the appropriate university absence  policy.”  4.1.5   -   Accordingly, we will be checking your attendance at labs, lectures, project  supervision meetings and other relevant timetabled sessions. At the outset of the year,  you need to demonstrate that you are engaging with teaching sessions before Week 3.  If you d o not do this, we will begin the process of withdrawing you from your  programme.  4.1.6   -   Absences of   three   consecutive weeks without explanation will result in action  being taken. We will contact you for information and if after a further short period we  don’t hear from you, you will be withdrawn from the programme.  4.1.7   -   The aim of this procedure is to ensure that you are given an opportunity to  provide an explanation for the absence. The ultimate sanction is withdrawal from the  University by Registry if no acceptable explanation for continued absence is received.  However,   as long as you keep the School informed of any legitimate absence, the  Attendance Monitoring policy need not be a cause for concern. 10
4.1.8   –   Regarding planned absences from campus, and gi ven the MSc programme's  one - year duration, carefully consider how extended absence may impact your  academic progress. Leave of   two   weeks or less requires no prior authorisation, but  longer absences must be discussed with your academic advisor.  4.1. 9   -   We have observed a strong correlation between lecture attendance and course  pass rates. You will benefit significantly from regular attendance at your classes. Do  not expect lecturers or tutors to explain material to you just because you have chosen  not to   attend the relevant sessions(s) or engage with relevant course material.  Lecturers will sometimes provide materials for lectures, but these do not usually  comprise a complete record of the course; you should expect to take additional notes  during   lectures.  4.1. 10   -   Students who decide (at any time of the year) that the programme does not  suit them, and wish to withdraw, should inform the Programme Director in writing, and  also advise the Registry.  4.2   -   Course Materials and Recording of   T imetabled   S essions  4.2.1   -   Lecture sessions may be recorded and made available through the course  Moodle page at the sole discretion of the course coordinator.  4.2.2   -   You may not make video recordings of, or take photographs in, on - campus  sessions. If you wish to make audio recordings of on - campus lectures for personal use  you must personally ask the lecturer for their permission. If the lecturer does not give  their per mission, you are not allowed to record the lectures.  4.2.3   -   Please note that lecture recordings and ALL course materials provided are for  your own personal use and can only be used in relation to your own studies. Any  unauthorised distribution of course materials, including emailing them to fellow  students, and upl oading them onto unauthorised web sites will be considered in  breach of the Student Code of Conduct and will be subject to disciplinary action.  4.2.4   -   For more information, please consult the University of Glasgow policy on  lecture recording:  https://www.gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/senateoffice/policies/studentsupport/lecturerecor  dingpolicy/  4.3   -   Credits and Grades  4.3 .1 .1   -   Each course will be worth a specified number of credits, corresponding to the  amount of work involved in the course. The total number of credits required in the  Taught stage is 120, and all 120 credits must be completed in order to progress to the  MSc Proj ect (see below) and remain eligible for the degree of MSc. For each course  you complete, your overall course grade will contribute to your GPA according to the  value of the grade on the 22 - point scale (see below). 11
4.3 .1. 2   -   Each course has its own requirements for completion, made up of different  items of assessment (components). Each component is assigned a percentage value  in the assessment of the given course, which will be specified on the course Moodle.  Students must sub mit at least 75% of the total assessment value for the course in  order to receive credit for the course.  4.3 .1. 3   -   Note that many of the examinations have a weight less than 75%, so the  examination alone will not be sufficient for credit in these courses. Failing to obtain  credit in just one course will mean that you will not be eligible for either the MSc or  Postgradu ate Diploma award, so you are advised to submit all coursework.  4.3 .1. 4   -   The overall course grade you receive will be one of the following:  •   If you complete a course, you will be awarded the appropriate number of  credits and a band/grade in the range A1 to H (22 - point scale   –   see below).  •   If you are ill or have other adverse circumstances, you may be awarded an EC  (‘Extenuating Circumstances’) (subject to the provision of a notification of  Extenuating Circumstances, along with any appropriate evidence), which  allow you to take the resit exa m as a first attempt (i.e., uncapped grades   –   see  below ).  •   If there is some reason why a result cannot be returned at the time of the  Exam Boards, this will show as a DFR (Deferred) award. This deferred award  will be updated once the matter has been resolved. This is normally because a  conduct matter is being inve stigated, but there may be another valid reason  why your work has not yet been able to be marked.  •   If you fail to complete a course, you will be awarded:  •   CW (Credit Withheld) if the situation can be redeemed in a resit exam, or  •   CR (Credit Refused) if the situation is irredeemable. 12
4.3 .2   -   Assessment bands   -   The University’s 22 - Point Scale  4.3.2.1   -   A student’s achievement on assessed exercises or on examination  questions within a course may be expressed as either a band, or as a numerical  mark: this will vary according to the course.  4.3.2.2   -   There are eight grades: A (highest), B, C, D, E, F, G, and H (lowest). Grades  A - G are referred to as ‘primary bands’ and are subdivided into ‘secondary bands’;  for example, grade B is subdivided into bands B1 (highest), B2, B3 (lowest). If an  item of asses sment is expressed as a numerical mark, it will be converted into a  band.  4.3.2.3   -   Each grade band and percentage range correspond to a score (0 to 22) on  the 22 - point scale, as determined by the university’s Schedule A assessment code.  The 22 - point scale is used in both course grade and GPA calculation, however  please note that the meth ods of calculation are different (see below).   Course  grades are an aggregate of assessment components, while GPA is an aggregate of  course grades.  4.3.2.4   -   The table   below   shows all bands with the percentage conversion used in  SoCS (please note that this differs slightly from the University’s normal %  conversion):  Band   %   Score   Band   %   Score  A1   91 - 100   22   D1   47 - 49   11  A2   84 - 90   21   D2   43 - 46   10  A3   78 - 83   20   D3   40 - 42   9  A4   73 - 77   19   E1   37 - 39   8  A5   70 - 72   18   E2   33 - 36   7  B1   67 - 69   17   E3   30 - 32   6  B2   63 - 66   16   F1   27 - 29   5  B3   60 - 62   15   F2   23 - 26   4  C1   57 - 59   14   F3   20 - 22   3  C2   53 - 56   13   G1   15 - 19   2  C3   50 - 52   12   G2   10 - 14   1  H   0 - 9   0 13
4.3. 3   -   Overall Course Grade Calculation  4.3.3.1   -   The overall course grade is calculated by creating a weighted average of  your component grades. This means that the 22 - point value of the band you receive  for each component is multiplied by the percentage value of that component within  the course’s assess ment. The resulting values for each component are added  together to produce a number from 0 to 22. Numbers which are .5 and above are  rounded up, numbers which are .499 and below are rounded down. The final  number is then converted to the equivalent band o n the 22 - point scale, and this is  the final course grade which is published.  Example: Course A   -   Assessed Exercise 20% / Exam 80%  Wei is graded B1 for the assessed exercise, and C2 for the exam   -   his calculation is  as follows:  AE: 17 (B1) x 0.2 (20%) = 3.4  Exam: 13 (C2) x 0.8 (80%) = 10.4  3.4 + 10.4 = 13.8   -   this is rounded up to 14, which corresponds to C1 on the 22 -  point scale.  Overall Grade: C1 14
4.3. 4   -   GPA Calculation  4.3.4.1   -   To calculate a GPA, we first establish what value each individual course  grade has on the 22 - point scale (please see above). Once we are aware of the  correct secondary bands corresponding to the 22 - point scale, these secondary  bands are used for the GPA ca lculation.  4.3.4.2   -   The method used in the University's Code of Assessment is to divide the  number of credits available for a given course by the total number of credits being  reviewed, multiply this number by the grade scale number achieved for that course,  and then add the   resulting numbers from this calculation for all courses together.  This total is then rounded to one decimal point, producing the GPA (.5 and above  rounded up, .499 and below rounded down). Please note that no further rounding is  applied to GPAs,   eg 11.9 to 12.0.  Example: Ayesha is studying the MSc Computing Science, with 120 Taught credits.  Her calculation is as follows:  Band   22PG   Credits   GPA value  B2   16   20   (20/120) x 16 =  2.66667  C2   13   15   (15/120) x 13 = 1.625  C1   14   15   (15/120) x 14 = 1.75  D3   9   10   (10/120) x 9 = 0.75  A5   18   10   (10/120) x 18 = 1.5  B3   15   10   (10/120) x 15 = 1.25  B1   17   10   (10/120) x 17 =  1.41667  C3   12   10   (10/120) x 12 = 1  C1   14   10   (10/120) x 14 =  1.16667  C3   12   10   (10/120) x 12 = 1  Unrounded GPA : 14.125  Final GPA : 14.1 15
4.3.4.3   -   The University Code of Assessment can be found at:  https://www.gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/apg/policies/assessment/codeofassessment/  4.4   -   Progression to the MSc Project  4.4.1   -   Following the April/May examination diet, the Exam Board will assess the  achievement of MSc students to establish whether they have progressed to the MSc  Project. Progression decisions will be published in early June, shortly before the  start of Project wo rk.  4.4.2   -   Progression to the M Sc   project requires:  •   A Taught GPA of at least 12.0 over 120 credits of taught courses, and  •   A total of at least 120 credits obtained, and  •   >= 90 credits at level M, and  •   >= 90 credits at grade D3 or above, and  •   0 credits at grades G or H.  4.4.3   -   Students who do not meet the MSc Project Progression requirements  following the Apr/May 2025 diet may be permitted to undertake their project with  the requirement to complete one or more resit examinations in the August diet,  depending on the assessment of   the Programme Directors. Where the requirements  of resit examinations in the August diet are considered to be too demanding to  undertake alongside the project, students will be delayed in commencing their  project until after completion of the Augu st diet, typically in early September.  4.4.4   -   Students are advised that delayed progression to the MSc Project will delay  graduation. 16
5   -   Assessment  5.1   -   Coursework  5.1.1   -   All courses will normally include some summatively assessed coursework,  assessment of which will count towards the final mark for the course. This coursework  might be either practical laboratory exercises or written work. A course may also  require a studen t to complete additional practical or tutorial exercises, and to do extra  background reading and revision. Coursework may include groupwork in addition to  individually completed assessments.  5.1.2   -   The submission dates for some coursework may extend beyond the end of  semester. Students will normally be given feedback on their coursework within three  weeks (15 working days) of submission. Note that because of the tight timetabling of  the programme, th is may mean that you may not get feedback from coursework before  needing to make decisions on further course selections. If this is the case, any student  who is concerned about their choices is encouraged to speak to the lecturers  concerned for inf ormation and advice.  5.1.3   -   Students cannot request that an academic decision regarding marks allocated  to assessed work be changed, although they may request correction of administrative  errors.  5.1.4   -   All items of assessment have strict submission deadlines. Marks will be  deducted for late submissions that are not accompanied by a valid notification of  Extenuating Circumstances. The reduction will be equivalent to two bands per working  day or part there of. Coursework that is 5 or more working days late will be awarded 0  (band H). Submissions that are made after coursework is returned to the rest of the  class will be awarded 0 (band H)   –   even if this is less than 5 working days from the  hand - in de adline. In the case where components or sub - components are marked in  percentages, an equivalent reduction of 10% per day will be applied, with a cut - off of  five days.  5.1.5   -   Please note that your mark for an assessment may be reduced by two bands if  your submission does not conform with the published submission requirements.  Coursework cannot be redone and resubmitted unless explicitly stated by the course  coordinator. 17
5.2   -   Examinations  5.2. 0. 1   -   Examinations will be held in December for Semester 1 and in April/May for  Semester 2 courses. Exams will be held in person on campus, and will be completed  online under invigilation. The examination timetable is determined by the University  Registry (not   SoCS ) and will be published by the Registry well in advance of the  examination period. When published, you can find the exam timetables here:  https://www.gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/registry/exams/examtimetables/  5.2. 0. 2   -   The results of the examinations are released on MyCampus after being  ratified by the Exam Board, which takes place several weeks after the end of each of  the examination periods.  5.2 .0.3   -   Students cannot request that an academic decision regarding marks  allocated to an exam be changed, although they may request correction of  administrative errors.  5.2.1   -   Resit   Examinations  5.2.1.1   -   Resit examinations will be offered to any student who achieves a band less  than C3 (overall) for any of the taught courses. Resit assessments will take place in  August. Students may only resit an examination once. Resit exams are taken in person  and on cam pus. Students are advised not to schedule any activities which may  interfere with their ability to take resit exams on campus   –   if you miss a resit exam as a  result of voluntary activity, you will not be provided with another attempt.  5.2.1.2   -   Except in the case of students who have been graded EC following  Extenuating Circumstances (see below), Resit exams are capped at C3. This means  that the maximum grade points available for the course are capped at 12.0. Please  note that it is the overall c ourse grade, not the exam grade, which is capped. When a  course grade is recalculated following a resit, the new exam component grade is  combined with a student’s existing coursework component grades to establish the  new overall grade. If this gr ade is above C3, the grade points will be capped at 12.0.  5.2.1.3   -   When recalculating the Taught GPA after resits, the highest grade of the two  grades achieved for a course is considered, but the maximum number of grade points  used in the recalculation is 12 (C3). Thus, for example, if the first attempt is a D2 and  the re sit is a C1, then 12 points (not 14) will be used in the Taught GPA calculation.  5.2.1.4   -   Resit examination grades are used to decide whether or not you progress to  the project stage but are not used when deciding if you are eligible for an MSc with  Merit or Distinction; Merit or Distinction are only awarded for achievements at first  attempt.  5.2.1.5   -   Both the first attempt and the resit grade without capping will be shown on  the student’s transcript. 18
5.2.1.6   -   Taking resits that are not required for progression is not advised unless there  is a particular reason why you want to improve your transcript grades. Note that resits  take place during the MSc project semester; taking unnecessary resits may have a  negativ e impact on your ability to complete the project to a high standard, and project  extensions will not be offered to accommodate resits.  5.2.1.7   -   You may see Registry webpages or notifications which refer to resit exams  being taken at overseas venues. These do not apply to SoCS MSc students. Due to the  online invigilated format of SoCS MSc examinations, it is not possible for examinations  to be take n overseas.  5.2.1. 8   -   Resit enrolment  5.2.1.8.1   -   Students will find that they are automatically enrolled in all eligible resits,  whether they intend to take them or not. It is at your discretion whether you unenrol  from resits you are not taking, but this is not compulsory   –   you can simply ignore  resits   which you are not taking.  5.2.1.8.2   -   If you intend to take a resit which you are eligible for, all that is required is  that you attend at the time and venue published on the examination timetable.  5.2.1.8.3   -   Students who attend resits they are not eligible for will not have their  attempts marked.  5.2.2   -   Feedback  5.2.2.1   -   Following first sitting exams, lecturers shall provide generic exam feedback to  the whole class via the course Moodle page, within three weeks of publication of exam  results .  5.2.2.2   -   Only students who are required to take a resit exam in order to progress to  the MSc project or to graduate with a final award may seek   individual   academic  feedback on their first exam attempt in that course.  5.2.2.3   -   To do this , e mail the lecturer to request more feedback within one week  of the publication of the your progression decision (see above). In this email you  must state that you have read the generic feedback provided to the class .  5.2.2.4   -   After the cutoff period, the lecturer will arrange a feedback session,  which can be either individual or in a group.  5.2.2.5   -   Feedback sessions will be student - driven. Students will be required to  ask specific questions; the lecturer will then explain and clear up  misunderstandings. For example, we will not respond to: “How do you do question  2?” We will respond to questions such   as “I attempted question 2 using a  BubbleSort. Why was BubbleSort the wrong choice?”. 19
5.3   -   MSc Project  5.3.1   -   The project is a key   part   of the M Sc   programme, which is worth 60 credits  toward the award of MSc.  5.3.2   -   Only students who have performed sufficiently well in the taught courses will  be progressed to the MSc Project. Please see above for details of the MSc Project  Progression requirements.  5.3.3   -   The project is taken over 12 weeks in Semester 3, commencing in early June  and submitting in early September. MSc students are expected to independently  produce a piece of high quality original work. MSc CS+ students will complete a  research - focused projec t (primarily involving academic research, literature reviews,  evaluations etc), while MSc IT+ students will complete a development - focused project  (primarily the creation of a software artefact, product, or tool).  5.3.4   -   The MSc project is assessed primarily via a substantial dissertation, but  assessment also includes review of the student’s working practices and professional  behaviours.   For MSc IT+ Projects, there is also a   minimal viva element, which you will  receive details of in due course.   There is no presentation or viva element to the  assessment of   MSc CS+   Project s .  5.3.5   -   The project requires full - time study for 12 weeks and students are strongly  advised not to combine the Project with full - time employment or an internship.  Students are advised to complete their projects on - campus, as this has been found to  provide the best   learning environment, but students do have the option of completing  remotely.   Please note that students studying on Student Visas will have their visa  sponsorship removed if they opt to complete the MSc Project remotely, as they will no  longer be   required on campus for academic activity.  5.3.6   -   Please note that no form of employment, or a decision on the part of a student  to complete their project remotely off - campus, will form the basis of a n Extenuating  Circumstances   submission or appeal.  5.3.7   -   In the project, you are expected to work independently with guidance from your  supervisor. You will meet your supervisor regularly and you will be responsible for  arranging   and documenting   these meetings. Your meetings will be monitored to  confirm your engagement with the project, and we expect to see evidence of  continual, steady progress in the development of your project.   If we cannot see  evidence of continual progress, this may be taken as an indication of disengagement  or potential academic mis conduct . By the submission date, you must submit a  dissertation that represents individual and original work of a Masters character and  quality. 20
5.3.8   -   You will be allocated a project supervisor before the beginning of the project  semester. More information about the projects and the allocation process will be  provided during Semester 2.  5.3.9   -   Students who do not attain a grade of D3 or above in the MSc Project will be  given the opportunity to receive feedback, and to resubmit   the Project within 4 weeks.  Resubmitted   MSc Projects are capped at D3.  5.4   -   Ratification by the Exam Board  5.4.1   -   Before any course bands are formally assigned, all courses are subject to  review by the Exam Board, which ensures that assessment is appropriate for the  session and that our expectations of high - quality assessment have been maintained.  The moderation of co urse grades is available to the Exam Board where this is found  appropriate. Once approved by the Exam Board, course grades will be published on  MyCampus.  5.4.2   -   The Exam Board meets following the December diet, April/May diet, and Project  submission.  5.5   -   Student Conduct  5.5.1   -   The School and University take academic misconduct very seriously. If you are  suspected of plagiarism (please see the University’s plagiarism statement here   -  https://www.gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/apg/policies/uniregs/regulations2023 -  24/feesandgeneral/studentsupportandconductmatters/reg32/ ),   a referral will be made  to the School’s Student Conduct team. The case will then be considered by the School  Student Conduct team, or for more serious and/or repeated alleged offences, the  University’s central Student Conduct Team.  5.5.2   -   You can find the School’s Plagiarism Policy   and links to AI guidance   at Appendix  3 . We urge you to read this in full, and   carefully follow   the guidance. There have been  many instances in the past of MSc students who do not graduate with their intended  degree as a result of academic misconduct. You are advised to take the necessary  steps to avoid this, and above all to conduct yourself honest ly   during   assessment.  5.5.3   -   Non - academic misconduct is administered by the University Student Conduct  Team.  5.5.4   -   You can find more information at the following links:  Student Conduct   -   https://www.gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/studentconduct/#  Plagiarism   -   https://www.gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/sld/plagiarism/ 21
6   -   Awards  6.0.1   -   Following the submission of MSc Projects in early September, t he Exam Board  will review the achievement of all students to establish degree outcomes.   Degree  outcomes will be published in mid - late   October.  6.1   -   Award of MSc  6.1.1   -   Students who meet the progression requirements and then attain a grade of D3  or above in the MSc Project will be eligible for the award of MSc. A simple pass is  referred to as Qualified.  6.1.2   -   A student may be awarded an MSc with Merit or with Distinction if they obtain  sufficiently high grades (through results achieved at the first attempt only). In short,  Merit requires a GPA of 14.5 and a grade of C1 or above in the MSc Project, whereas  Disti nction requires a GPA of 17.5 and a B1 or above in the MSc Project. Complete  requirements for the awards are given in Appendix   4 .  6.1.3   -   The Exam Board will also determine prizewinners for the academic year. Prizes  are awarded to the best performing student overall in both CS+ and IT+, and to the best  MSc Project in both CS+ and IT+.  6.2   -   Exit Awards  6.2.1   -   Where students do not meet their progression requirements, they may be  eligible for an exit award. There are two types of exit award associated with SoCS MSc  programmes:  •   The Postgraduate Diploma is an early - exit award covering 120 credits from the  taught stage, with no project.  •   Postgraduate Certificate is an early - exit award covering 60 credits from the  taught stage, with no project.  6.2.2   -   Students may opt to complete only the Postgraduate Diploma or Postgraduate  Certificate and may leave the programme after the Semester 2 examinations. This is  typically done by a small proportion of the class each year.  6.3   -   Academic Appeals  6.3.1   -   If you believe you have reasonable grounds to appeal against an academic  decision, please refer to the University’s policy on Academic Appeals at the following  link   -   https://www.gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/apg/studentcodes/  6.3.2   -   Please ensure that you give full and objective consideration to whether you  have grounds for an appeal before beginning the process. 22
7   -   Graduation  7.0.1   -   Degree outcomes will be published in mid - late October, and graduation will take  place in early December. Students who have been awarded the MSc following the final  meeting of the Exam Board will be entitled to graduate. Students have the option to  graduate   in person or in absentia (remotely).  7.0.2   -   It is necessary for students to enrol to graduate. You can find details of the  enrolment process and dates here   -   https://www.gla.ac.uk/events/graduations/enrol/  7.0.3   -   Please note that although you are considered eligible for your award once the  decision of the Exam Board has been published, you are not considered as having  graduated until after your degree has been officially awarded by the University at your  graduation   ceremony.  7.0.4   -   Students who have been qualified for an exit award are also required to enrol to  graduate, either in person or in absentia, in order to receive their award.  7.0.5   -   If you think that your name may be mispronounced at the graduation ceremony,  you can add a phonetic pronunciation of your name in the graduation section of  MyCampus.  7.0.6   -   Students should be aware that delayed examinations or a delayed start to the  MSc Project may affect their graduation timeline. For example, students who are  delayed in commencing their MSc Projects until September 2026 will not be eligible to  graduate in D ecember 2026, and if successful their first opportunity to do so will be in  absentia graduation in April 2027. 23
8   -   Communication at UofG and SoCS  8.0.1   -   You will receive information on your student status, courses, programme, and  academic progress via two main sources   –   your student email account, and Moodle.  You are expected to carefully read all communications from the School and University. If  you are d isadvantaged by a failure to read information provided to you, that will be your  responsibility. If you ask questions which have already been answered in School or  University communications, you will be referred back to those communications.  Email  8.1.1.1   -   Your student email address is <Your GUID>@student.gla.ac.uk ( eg  3099999S@glasgow.ac.uk ), and your password is the same as used with your  GUID for other University systems. Your student email account is one of the  principal means by which the University and the School will communicate with  you. MSc students are expected to check their studen t email daily throughout the  programme.  8.1.1.2   -   Please ensure that you carefully read all of what is provided to you.  Moodle  8.1.2.1   -   Moodle is the principal source of learning materials for each course, and  is also used for important announcements. Course announcements are normally  made via the relevant course Moodle. Programme announcements are normally  made via the MSc Handbook Moodle   (link to the Handbook Moodle will be  provided in a further update to the MSc Handbook)  8.1.2.2   -   You are expected to check the MSc Handbook Moodle and your course  Moodles regularly for updates.  8.1.2.3   -   The MSc Handbook Moodle is also where the MSc Handbook, FAQs, and  additional programme information documents are found. The Handbook, FAQs,  and additional information provided are all required reading for MSc students. If  you make an enquiry which has alre ady been covered in these documents, you will  be referred back to them for information.  8.1.2.4   -   MSc Moodles will open in September. You will be auto - enrolled to any  course Moodle within 48 hours of enrolling to the course on MyCampus, and to the  MSc Handbook Moodle following your registration   (the MSc Handbook Moodle will  open in late August) . However it is very important that you check to ensure that  you are enrolled to all of your courses on Moodle, and to the MSc Handbook  Moodle. 24
8.2   -   Staff Communication  8.2.1   -   Communication to students about matters pertaining to the MSc programmes  and courses will typically be sent by email or via Moodle.  8.2.2   -   Please do not email members of staff from your personal email accounts:  always use your University of Glasgow email address. Staff are not obliged to answer  your email if it does not come from your University of Glasgow email address.  8.2.3   -   Please be respectful of staff time by avoiding repeated messages across  multiple platforms ( e.g.   email and MS Teams).   Do not contact multiple members of  staff with the same enquiry.   Send one clear message and allow reasonable time for a  response. Staff will respond to queries as promptly as possible.  8.3   -   Advice   –   S ources &   L imitations  8.3.1   -   There are many different elements to pursuing an MSc programme, and you  will interact with various University staff members and departments in relation to  these. It is very important that you are in contact with the correct staff member or  department with   regard to a given situation, as contacting the wrong office can, at  best, cause delay and inconvenience or, at worst, detrimentally affect your learning,  your graduation, or your future plans.  Administrative Matters   -   University  8.3.2   -   Matters relating to your status as a University of Glasgow student are  normally administered by the Registry. This would include your registration,  MyCampus details, and graduation. Registry are not in a position to advise on the  details of your programme,   your course choices (enrolment) and timetable, or  academic matters connected to a given course, such as teaching arrangements or  assessment outcomes.  Administrative Matters   -   School  8.3.3.1   -   Matters relating to your programme and course choices, and the  administrative elements of your programme and assessment, should be referred  to the SoCS Admin Team, either in person at the Teaching Office (Rm 103 SAWB),  via the SoCS Helpdesk, or by email to   a SoCS Admin Team staff member you have  been communicating with. You can also contact your Programme Director in  relation to these matters. Other School staff members are unable to provide  advice on these matters and students should not seek or   depend on such advice.  8.3.3.2   -   Information relating to the administrative elements of your programme  will be made available whenever required, either through Moodle or by bulk email  to the cohort. You can also be advised directly on an individual basis by the SoCS  Admin Team or your Pro gramme Director. 25
8.3.3.3   -   You can depend on the advice of the SoCS Admin Team or your  Programme Director, and should act in reliance on that advice with confidence. In  the unlikely event that you are incorrectly advised by either of these sources, the  SoCS Admin Team will take all   necessary and possible measures to put you in the  position of having been correctly advised at first instance. However, it is always  the case that some minor changes to class sizes, timetables, venues, lab groups  etc are required each year. For t his reason, the advice of the SoCS Admin Team or  your Programme Director cannot remain valid indefinitely. Advice which is  published to the whole cohort, either via Moodle or by bulk email, will remain valid  until it is explicitly voided or replaced by a s ubsequent communication. You can  act in reliance on this advice while it is in place. Advice which is given to you  individually must be acted upon as soon as possible. If you receive individual  advice from the SoCS Admin Team or your Programme Director the n, in order to  rely on that advice later in relation to any matter, you must act on that advice  within one week of receiving it (or within one week of the advice becoming  actionable, eg if you are advised to do something after a certain time).  Academic/Administrative Matters   -   Courses  8.3.4   -   Matters relating to the academic content or in - course organisation of any  given course should be referred to the relevant course coordinator.  Extenuating Circumstances  8.3.5   -   Matters relating to your wellbeing, or external issues having a detrimental  effect on your studies, should be referred to the School's Student Support Officer.  Please see the Student Support section below for further information.  Visa Matters  8.3.6.1   -   Matters relating to Student Visas or UK entry status should be referred to  our colleagues at International Student Support  (https://www.gla.ac.uk/international/support/). Please note that no School staff  member, either academic or administrative, is qualifi ed or authorised to provide  you with visa advice. You should not seek or act upon visa advice from any source  in the University other than International Student Support. If you choose to accept  visa advice from a third party adviser, you do so a t your own risk.  8.3.6.2   -   Please be advised that the School will not organise or administer any visa  process on your behalf. When you are conducting visa processes which are  informed or affected by academic matters (eg a Graduate Visa application, which  requires confirmation of you r degree outcome), the School can only take action on  or provide confirmation of the relevant academic matters. It is your responsibility 26
to establish what is required for your visa process and, in the case of academic  action or confirmation, to request this from the School.  8.4   -   Staff - Student Liaison Committees  8.4.1   -   The Staff - Student Liaison Committees (‘SSLCs’) meet regularly throughout the  year; they are an opportunity for Class Representatives (‘Class Reps’) to give staff  valuable feedback on the MSc programmes.  8.4.2   -   Class Reps will be recruited   in the early part   of Semester 1. You should think  carefully about whether you would like to undertake this role. As well as providing  valuable experience, including CV points, such participation will be recorded on your  academic transcript, subject to the completion of SRC   training (which lasts half a  day). Students wishing to serve as Class Reps must be aware and agree that their  name and student email address will be publicised to the cohort via the Handbook  Moodle.  8.4.3   -   Any student on the MSc programmes who wishes a matter to be raised at an  SSLC meeting should contact one of the Class Reps before the meeting.  8.4.4   -   Class Reps are encouraged to raise issues of immediate concern directly with  the lecturer or Programme Director concerned, so that these issues can be dealt with  promptly, rather than waiting to raise minor issues at the SSLC meeting. Only if these  issues   are not dealt with satisfactorily do they become a matter of concern for the  SSLC.  8.4.5   -   Minutes are taken at all meetings and appropriate actions are identified,  whether immediate actions on lecturers or the Programme Director or references to  relevant school committees. The Learning and Teaching Committee monitors the  minutes of all SSLC mee tings.  8.5   -   Student Feedback  8.5.1   -   We continually improve and develop our programmes and courses over the  years. To help us, we ask you to respond to questionnaires for each course near the  end of teaching, covering the content, lectures, organisation, and practical work, and  providing an o pportunity to make comments   –   a link to each online end - of - course  questionnaire will be emailed to you. We hope you will take the time to provide us  with this information.  8.5.2   -   In addition, we may sometimes ask you to comment on the introduction or  removal of courses in our curricula. We would be grateful for your input on these  matters. 27
8.6   -   Complaints  8.6.1   -   If you have a complaint, please raise it in the first instance with a member of  staff in the area concerned (Stage 1).  (a) If your query relates to administration, contact the PGT administrator.  (b) If your query relates to a specific course, please contact the course lecturer  or relevant MSc Programme Director.  (c) If your query relates to your project, contact your project supervisor or  relevant MSc Project Co - ordinator.  8.6.2   -   The School of Computing Science aims to provide a response to the  complaint within five working days. It is hoped that consultation with tutors, lecturers  and/or the year head will resolve any difficulties or disputes that may arise.  8.6.3   -   If you are not satisfied with a Stage 1 response (or if your complaint is  complex) you may proceed to Stage 2, when the University will undertake a detailed  investigation of the complaint, aiming to provide a final response within 20 working  days. You can   raise a Stage 2 complaint with the Complaints Resolution Office by  emailing complaints@glasgow.ac.uk, or phoning 0141 330 6244. The SRC Advice  Centre is available to provide advice and assistance if you are considering making a  complaint or appeal.   (Tel: 0141 339 8541; e - mail:   advice@src.gla.ac.uk )  8.6.4   -   Complaints do not have to be made in writing, but you are encouraged to  submit the completed Complaint Form whether it is at Stage 1 or Stage 2. This will  help to clarify the nature of the complaint and the remedy that you are seeking.  8.6.5   -   You can find full details of the Complaints procedure at  https://www.gla.ac.uk/connect/complaints/ 28
8.7   –   Gift Policy  8.7.1   -   We understand that in many cultures it is the norm to bring gifts to teachers,  particularly individual project supervisors. We understand that this can be an  important marker of appreciation and respect. However, teaching staff cannot  accept gifts   of any substantial value. Staff will have to refuse gifts that might be seen  to compromise their integrity. This can lead to situations where staff have to turn  down gifts on the spot and an act of kindness and respect on your part becomes  unhappy for ever yone.  8.7.2   –   Please refer to the following guidelines on appropriate gifts:  •   Please do not ever feel obliged to bring gifts for teaching staff.  •   Please do not offer gifts of any substantial value   –   as rough guidance, a gift  would have to be clearly less than £20 in value to be accepted.  •   If you really do want to bring a token of appreciation, a simple personal gift will  be appreciated more than anything else.  o   For example: a handwritten card or note, a picture of you enjoying  Scotland, a fridge magnet from your hometown, or a simple handmade  object like a piece of origami or calligraphy   –   anything that is only of  personal and individual value.  8.7.3   -   Please see Section 7 of the Personal Relationships Policy:  https://www.gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/equalitydiversity/policy/prp/ 29
9   -   Student Visas  9.0.1   -   Students studying on a Student Visa will be aware that the University is the  sponsor of their visa, and must ensure that they are legitimately engaged in study. The  University has an obligation to withdraw visa sponsorship from any student who  demonstrates   that they are not sufficiently engaged.  9.0.2   -   During Semesters 1 and 2, visa monitoring is done via the SafeZone app.  Students are required to check in at all scheduled classes, and this information is used  to monitor engagement for visa purposes. Check in can only be done at the physical  location of   the scheduled class.  9.0.3   -   Students who are not found to be engaging will be contacted to provide an  explanation. Should a student fail to respond, the School will contact the student again  within two weeks of the first contact. If the student remains unresponsive following the  seco nd communication, final efforts will be made to contact the student by email  and/or phone, after which the process of withdrawing the student and ceasing to  sponsor their Student Visa will begin.  9.0.4   -   As noted above, students should not seek or act on visa advice from any source  within the University other than International Student Support ( ISS   -  https://www.gla.ac.uk/international/support/ ). The School will only provide appropriate  confirmation or make appropriate adjustments to your academic arrangements as  requested by you for visa purposes, and will not organise or administer any visa process  for you.  Graduate Visas  9. 1. 1   -   Please note that   applications for the Graduate Visa require students to have  been confirmed in their degree outcome   prior to   expi ry of the existing Student Visa .  Students who are delayed in their Project, or othe r aspect of their degree  r equirements, will not have th eir degree outcome published by the Exam Board by  late October, with the next available opportunity for publication being mid - February.  In most cases, this prevent s confirmation prior to expi ry of the existing Student Visa.  9.1.2   -   If you   ar e affected by th e situation des cribed abov e, you should contact   ISS   for  advice. Please note:  •   T h e School will   only provide confirmation of your status and expected dates of  course and degree outcome publi cation  •   T h e School will not   organise or   seek clarification   from   ISS on your   application  process  •   Students are advised to ensure that they are absolutely certain of   all stages of  the process   before concluding discussions with ISS   –   if   students   are  uncertain, they are advised to ask further questions 30
10   -   Student Support  10.1   -   Student Support Officer  10.1.1   -   Stéphane Charrier is the Student Support Officer for the School of Computing  Science. He is here to help with any non - academic issues you might encounter during  your studies.  10.1.2   -   Student Support Officers provide a range of  practical and emotional support, and can help you  navigate things like:  •   managing your health and wellbeing;  •   study support;  •   finances;  •   accessing University services (such as  Counselling and Disability services);  •   careers information;  •   accommodation;  •   Extenuating Circumstances claims.  10.1.3   -   If you have a problem or question, or just need someone to talk to  confidentially, your Student Support Officer can act as an accessible contact point  within the School.  10.1.4   -   The Student Support Officer works closely with staff from support services at  the University and can offer advice, support, and signposting to relevant services as  required.  10.1.5   -   Please feel free to contact Stéphane directly, between 0900 – 1700 Monday –  Friday with your enquiry, or to set up an in - person or online meeting.  Email:   compsci - studentsupport@glasgow.ac.uk  10.2   -   Central   S upport   S ervices  International Student Support  10.2.1   -   International Student Support (ISS) provides welfare and advice services to  overseas students during their period of study at Glasgow University. ISS is able to  help students with the practical aspects of living and studying in Glasgow, and with  advice on   matters such as Student Visas. This office organizes Orientation Events at  the beginning of the session, at which you will find useful information on a wide  variety of matters. The   ISS   website includes several useful links:  http://www.gla.ac.uk/international/support/ 31
Student Learning Development (SLD)  10.2.2   -   Advisers in the Student Learning Development (SLD)   team   will help you  throughout your University career with your academic skills.   SLD   work to enhance  your learning experience and help you achieve your full academic potential.  •   All students are welcome at our classes and small group sessions  •   One - to - one consultations are available to discuss how to approach your  studies  •   College - specific guidance is offered on essay writing, exam preparation,  dissertations and research  •   College - specific guidance is offered on essay writing, exam preparation,  dissertations and research  •   Dedicated International Writing Advisers for Undergraduate and  Postgraduate Taught students  •   B espoke classes and one - to - one consultations  •   Dedicated classes and one - to - one consultations for postgraduate research  students from our Postgraduate (Research) Writing Adviser  •   Dedicated Royal Literary Fund Fellow Postgraduate Taught Writing Adviser  provides one - to - one consultations  •   Specialised guidance for mathematics and statistics courses.  For more information, see:   https://www.gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/sld/  Student Welfare  10.2.3.1   -   A GP service, including a travel clinic, is available from the Barclay Medical  Centre, on the ground floor of the Fraser Building.  10.2.3.2   -   Counselling and Wellbeing Services offer a confidential service available to  all students including international students at   UofG . You can seek information and  guidance on a wide variety of personal problems. You can make an appointment  yourself or ask to be referred by a University doctor in University Health Service. The  Counselling and Wellbeing Service website includes several u seful links:  http://www.gla.ac.uk/services/counselling/index.html 32
Financial Support Available for Students  10.2.4.1   -   The University of Glasgow Financial Aid Team offers financial support to  registered students who are experiencing financial difficulties or hardship during the  course of their studies.  For more information, see:   http://www.gla.ac.uk/services/registry/finance/funds/  SAAS HEI Discretionary and Childcare Funds  10.2.4.2   -   Government funding available via the University to home UK  undergraduates and postgraduates who have received their full Student Loans  Company (SLC) loan entitlement (when eligible). Provides support across the  academic session under several categories: ac commodation; childcare;  disability; mature student. Students who live with their parent(s) are ineligible for  funding. Funding does not cover tuition fees and is not intended as a primary  source of income. Applicants must demonstrate clear hards hip i.e., a monthly  shortfall between income and expenditure across the academic session, in order  to be considered. Applicants must also take reasonable steps to reduce outgoings  before submitting an application e.g., reducing budget for socialising; food  budget; club memberships etc.  University Hardship Fund  10.2.4.3   -   University funds available to part - time and full - time registered students.  Students should exhaust all other resources available to them before submitting  an application e.g., personal loans, overdraft etc. The fund will not provide ongoing  support to any   single individual. Payments can be made as a loan and/or a grant.  Applications from students undertaking a one - year Masters programme will only  be considered in exceptional circumstances. International students should refer  to the International   Student Support team before completing an application.  Laptop Loan Scheme  10.2.5   -   In addition to the IT facilities and services available on campus, the  University of Glasgow can also assist students who require a laptop for their studies.  Students can request a laptop on a long - term loan basis from the University of  Glasgow.  For more information, see here: University of Glasgow   -   MyGlasgow   -   Registry   -  Student finance   -   Financial aid   -   Laptop Loan Scheme 33
10.2.6   -   English Language Support for Overseas Students  All students need to be proficient in the use of English, both in speech and in writing.  These are very fast paced and intensive programmes and so you need to start with a  high level of fluency in English language in order to cope with the initial stages.  We support overseas students wherever possible, but many overseas students are  disadvantaged, irrespective of their technical ability, if they do not have adequate  English language skills. Attaining the minimum requirement for University entry is no  guaran tee of sufficient skills for study on our programmes and so if you were close to  the minimum, further intensive practice is your best bet.  The English for Academic Study (EAS) Unit here at the University offers year - round  student support for Overseas/EU students wishing to improve their English skills.  They run a series of workshop on the following three topics: English Orientation,  Reading &   Writing, Listening & Speaking. More information can be found on the EAS  website:   http://www.gla.ac.uk/schools/mlc/eas/ .   Any student who is concerned  about their English should discuss this with their Adviser of Studies as soon as  possible. 34
11   -   The Student Representative Council (SRC)  Advice Centre  https://www.glasgowunisrc.org/advice/  11.1   -   The SRC employ professional advisers to help you through any problems you may  experience in the course of your studies. These can range from welfare issues such as  money and accommodation to representation in academic appeals and disciplinary  matters. This   is a free service, no appointment is necessary and their doors are open  from 10 - 4 (Mon - Thurs) and 10 - 3 (Fri). You can also contact this service via  advice@src.gla.ac.uk  Class Representatives  11.2   -   During the early weeks of each course, you will select Class Reps who receive  training from the SRC and represent your views on Staff - Student Liaison Committees.  The role of these students is very important and it’s imperative that you keep them  advised as   to how the courses are progressing so that they can keep the school  informed on everything from teaching to facilities, to help ensure that there is  continuous improvement.  The University’s Code of Practice on Student Representation is set out in:  https://www.gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/senateoffice/policies/studentengagement/studentre  presentation/  Vice President (Education)  11.3   -   The VP - Ed oversees the whole course representative system, including providing  the training. They also represent the views of all students to the University on a variety of  Committees. If you have a matter relating to Education, either within the Universit y or  beyond, which you feel requires attention, do not hesitate to get in touch via   vp -  education@src.gla.ac.uk   or by dropping in to the SRC offices.  11.4   -   This and any other information about the SRC is available from the SRC website  at:   https://www.glasgowunisrc.org/ 35
12   -   University Administration Information  Personal Details  12.1   -   It is important that the University has up to date information on your student  record. Therefore, if any of your personal details change after you have registered with  the University (i.e. change of permanent or term address, status, etc), please remember  to update this information immediately on MyCampus.  Safety  12.2.1   -   Make sure that you know the procedure in case of fire or other emergency for  evacuation of the Boyd Orr Building and any other building in which you are attending  classes.  12.2.2   -   Computer equipment that is not functioning properly may be a safety hazard. If  you discover any equipment that is out of order, or in any other unsafe condition, please  report this immediately to your tutor/lecturer or another member of staff. Hardware  fau lts should be noted in the hardware fault book in the lab.  12.2.3   -   Remember to install the SafeZone app   -   https://www.gla.ac.uk/apps/  Security  12.3   -   You have been placed in the privileged position of having access to buildings and  labs holding a large amount of expensive equipment. Therefore, under no  circumstances should you admit anyone to the buildings or labs who has no right to be  there   –   especial ly out of hours. If you suspect that unauthorized persons have gained  access, then you must phone security on Extension 4444.  Retention Policy of Teaching Assessment Records  12.4   -   The University has a strict policy regarding the retention of records that relate to  teaching and assessment. This includes information for students on the availability of  assessment information which academic schools must release to them on request.  For further details, see:   https://www.gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/apg/  Study   /   Lab Spaces  12.5.1   -   The University has individual study spaces that are available to all University  students, situated in the University Library, James McCune Smith Building and McMillan  Reading Room (Round Reading Room). For information about using these study spaces,  please   refer to:   https://www.gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/reachout/studyspaces/ .   You can also  use the UofG Life app to see how busy study spaces are.  12.5.2   -   There are study spaces for exclusive use by Computing Science students,  including Boyd Orr 1028, and the Study Zone in the QMU. Note that study spaces may 36
be unavailable because they are being used for timetabled teaching. We will be closely  monitoring usage of these study spaces.  12.5.3   -   See  https://www.gla.ac.uk/schools/computing/informationforstudents/labsandfacilities/  for more information on the School of Computing Science lab facilities.  12.5. 4   -   In these study spaces and labs, the following are prohibited:  •   Using equipment for commercial purposes  •   Playing games or watching film/TV  •   Consuming food or drink  •   Having telephone conversations  •   Accessing offensive material  •   Installing or using unapproved software  •   Copying software without approval  •   Tampering with equipment  •   Storing excessive amounts of non - teaching material  •   Sharing your password  •   Listening to music during a timetabled lab or lecture session  •   Locking the machine for more than 10 minutes while you are away  •   Storing or manipulating data in contravention of GDPR. For example, if you  store other people’s personal data (perhaps from evaluations of your project  or coursework) you must anonymise it.  12.5. 5   -   You are   permitted   to :  •   Connect USB storage drives  •   Access and use email (but note that the privacy of your email is not  guaranteed). See https://www.gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/it/policy/email/  •   Connect your personal devices (e.g., laptops, phones etc.) to the university  wireless network  •   Listen to music with earphones outside of timetabled lab or lecture sessions  12.5. 6   -   Note that the privacy of files in your file store is not guaranteed. Support staff  may, during their duties, be required to explore and read files in your file store.  12.5.7   -   Any software copied from file servers onto your own discs for the purpose of an  exercise must be deleted at the end of the exercise. Similarly, you are not allowed to  take copies from the hard discs out of the lab. You must not install your own software,  a nd licensed software must not be saved on file servers.  12.5.8   -   Any technical problems experienced with the equipment in the School of  Computing Science labs (Islay, Jura, QMU, BO) should be reported by emailing  support@dcs.gla.ac.uk 37
12.5.9   -   Failure to follow the regulations will lead to your access to these study spaces  being withdrawn.  12.5.10   -   The School uses the University’s central Pull Printing system. There is a pull -  printer in Boyd Orr Room 1028, Boyd Orr Room 620 and in the foyer of level 7 of the Boyd  Orr building. The printers also have functions for scanning and copying. Printing costs  5p/7p for back - and - white single/double, and 15p/27p for colour single/double. 38
13   -   Important Websites  Moodle  https://moodle.gla.ac.uk/login/index.php  UofG Life app  https://www.gla.ac.uk/apps/uofglife/#/login  MyCampus  http://www.gla.ac.uk/students/myglasgow/  Library  http://www.gla.ac.uk/services/library/  International Student Support  http://www.gla.ac.uk/international/support/  Student Visa  http://www.glasgow.ac.uk/tier4  Past Exam Papers  https://frontdoor.spa.gla.ac.uk/pep/search  Student Cont r act  https://www.gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/apg/studentcontract/  Code of Student Conduct  https://www.gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/apg/policies/uniregs/regulations2025 -  26/feesandgeneral/studentsupportandconductmatters/reg33/  Complaints  https://www.gla.ac.uk/connect/complaints/  Code of Assessment  https://www.gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/apg/policies/assessment/codeofassessment/  University IT Regulations  http://www.gla.ac.uk/services/it/regulationscommitteesandpolicies  University Fees and General Information for Students  https://www.gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/apg/policies/uniregs/regulations2024 -  25/feesandgeneral/ 39
Tuition Fee s  https://www.gla.ac.uk/study/fees/  Regulations for MSc programmes  https://www.gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/apg/policies/regulationsandguidelines/genericpgtreg  ulations/#  Academic Appeals  https://www.gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/apg/studentcodes/  UofG Help Des k  http://www.gla.ac.uk/services/it/helpdesk/  Registration  http://www.glasgow.ac.uk/registration  Enrolment  http://www.glasgow.ac.uk/enrolment  Examinations  http://www.glasgow.ac.uk/exams  Graduations  http://www.glasgow.ac.uk/graduation  Student finance  http://www.glasgow.ac.uk/registry/finance  Financial Aid  http://www.glasgow.ac.uk/registry/finance/funds  Student Counselling Services  http://www.gla.ac.uk/services/counselling/  Chaplaincy Centre  http://www.gla.ac.uk/services/chaplaincy/index.html  Student Disability Service  http://www.gla.ac.uk/services/disability/ 40
Accommodation  https://www.gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/accommodation/  Student Representative Council (SRC)  https://www.glasgowstudent.net/  Student Learning Development (SLD)  http://www.gla.ac.uk/SLD 41
Campus map  Please note: there is major campus redevelopment  underway and some access routes may be  restricted.  For more information see   glasgow.ac.uk/maps .  Updated July 2024  University of Glasgow, charity number SC004401  ZONE A  Bute Hall   A13  Chapel   A8  Concert Hall   A12  East Quadrangle   A5  Gilbert Scott Building   A10  Gilchrist Postgraduate Club   A26  Hunter Halls   A14  James Watt North Building   A2  James Watt South Building   A1  Kelvin Gallery   A7  McIntyre Building   A22  Main Gatehouse   A21  Memorial Gates   A28  Pearce Lodge   A4  Principal’s Lodgings   A18  Randolph Hall   A10  Stair Building   A19  West Quadrangle   A6  ZONE B  Bower Building   B7  Davidson Building   B3  Joseph Black Building   B4  Kelvin Building   B8  West Medical Building   B2  Wolfson Building   B10  ZONE C  Adam Smith Building   C6  BHF Glasgow Cardiovascular  Research Centre   C12  (Glasgow) Biomedical  Research   Centre Sir Graeme  Davies Building   C13  Clarice Pears Building   C5  Glasgow International College   C1  Mathematics & Statistics  Building   C3  Mazumdar-Shaw Advanced  Research Centre (ARC)   C4  Wolfson Medical School  Building   C8  ZONE D  42 Bute Gardens   D8  Boyd Orr Building   D1  Hetherington Building   D10  James McCune Smith  Learning Hub   D4  Library   D11  Lilybank House   D9  Molema Building   D2  Queen Margaret Union   D3  Sir Alexander Stone Building   D5  Sir Alwyn Williams Building   D20  ZONE E  Florentine House   E4  Fraser Building   E2  Gilmorehill Halls   E9  Glasgow University Union   E8  McMillan Reading Room   E1  Rankine Building   E7  School of Education  (St Andrew’s Building)   E14  Sir Charles Wilson Building   E15  Southpark House   E5  Stevenson Building   E6 42
Appendix 2   –   Enrolment Requirements by P rogramme  Semester 1 Enrolments  All Sem 1 courses are compulsory unless stated  MSc Computing Science   COMPSCI4084 Programming and Systems Development  COMPSCI5089 Introduction to Data Science  COMPSCI5092 Research & Professional Skills  ***  COMPSCI5077 Enterprise Cybersecurity*  or  COMPSCI5100 Machine Learning/AI for DS*  *the SoCS Admin team will be in contact separately in relation to  this choice  MSc Data Science   COMPSCI4084 Programming and Systems Development  COMPSCI5089 Introduction to Data Science  COMPSCI5092 Research & Professional Skills  COMPSCI5100 Machine Learning & AI for DS  MSc CyberSecurity   COMPSCI4084 Programming and Systems Development  COMPSCI5092 Research & Professional Skills  COMPSCI5077 Enterprise Cybersecurity  COMPSCI5120 Principles of Cybersecurity  MSc Information Technology  and  MSc Software Development  COMPSCI4039 Programming  COMPSCI5076 Database and   Data   Analytics  COMPSCI4043 Systems and Networks  COMPSCI5059 Software Engineering (Sem 1&2)  COMPSCI5077 Enterprise Cybersecurity 43
Semester 2 Enrolments  MSc Computing Science   Choose six of the following courses:  COMPSCI5107 Web Science for MSc  COMPSCI5011 Information Retrieval  COMPSCI5103 Deep Learning for MSc*  COMPSCI5088 Big Data  COMPSCI 5106 Text as Data for MSc  ***  (Security Courses) **  COMPSCI5063 CyberSecurity Fundamentals for MSc  COMPSCI5060 Human Centred Security  COMPSCI5079 Cryptography and Secure Development  COMPSCI5080   Cyber System   Forensics  COMPSCI5119 Secure Programming in Rust  ***  COMPSCI5104 Secured Software Engineering for MSc  COMPSCI5012 Internet Technology  COMPSCI5057 HCI Design and Evaluation  COMPSCI5099 Information Visualisation  COMPSCI5112 Mobile HCI for MSc  *COMPSCI5103 Deep Learning can only be taken if  COMPSCI5100 Machine Learning and AI is taken in S1  **If COMPSCI5077 Enterprise Cyber Security is not taken in S1,  at least one Security course must be taken 44
MSc Data Science   Choose at least four of the following courses:  COMPSCI5107 Web Science for MSc  COMPSCI5011 Information Retrieval  COMPSCI5103 Deep Learning for MSc  COMPSCI5088 Big Data  COMPSCI5106 Text as Data for MSc  Choose at least one of the following courses:  COMPSCI5063 CyberSecurity Fundamentals for MSc  COMPSCI5060 Human Centred Security  COMPSCI5079 Cryptography and Secure Development  COMPSCI5080   Cyber System   Forensics  COMPSCI5119 Secure Programming in R ust  Choose at most one of the following courses:  COMPSCI5104 Secured Software Engineering for MSc  COMPSCI5012 Internet Technology  COMPSCI5057 HCI Design and Evaluation  COMPSCI5099 Information Visualisation  COMPSCI5112 Mobile HCI for MSc  MSc C yberSecurity   All   courses   are compulsory :  COMPSCI5060 Human Centred Security  COMPSCI5079 Cryptography and Secure Development  COMPSCI5080   Cyber System   Forensics  COMPSCI5110   Emerging Topics in Cyber Security  COMPSCI4091   Advanced Networked Systems (H)  COMPSCI5119   Secure Programming in Rust 45
MSc Information Technology  Compulsory Courses:  COMPSCI5074 IT+ Team Project  COMPSCI5059 Software Engineering (Sem 1&2)  Choose four of the following courses:  COMPSCI5002 Programming for AI  COMPSCI 5004 Algorithms & Data Structures  COMPSCI5012 Internet Technology  COMPSCI5057 HCI Design and Evaluation  COMPSCI5099 Information Visualisation  COMPSCI5063 CyberSecurity Fundamentals for MSc  COMPSCI5080 Cyber System Forensics  MSc Software Development  Compulsory Courses:  COMPSCI5074 IT+ Team Project  COMPSCI5059 Software Engineering (Sem 1&2)  COMPSCI5002 Programming for AI  COMPSCI 5004 Algorithms & Data Structures  Choose   two   of the following courses:  COMPSCI5012 Internet Technology  COMPSCI5057 HCI Design and Evaluation  COMPSCI5099 Information Visualisation  COMPSCI5063 CyberSecurity Fundamentals for MSc  COMPSCI5080   Cyber System   Forensics 46
Appendix 3   –   School Plagiarism Policy  Please ensure that you read this carefully, that you fully understand it, and that you  keep it in mind throughout the whole year. If you have any queries please contact  your programme director, adviser of studies, or your projects co - ordinator.  University Plagiarism Statement  The full University plagiarism statement can be found   here . Here is the most relevant  extract:  32.1 The University's degrees and other academic awards are given in recognition of a  student's personal achievement. All work submitted by students for assessment is  accepted on the understanding that it is the student's own effort.  32.2 Plagiarism is defined as the submission or presentation of work, in any form, which  is not one's own, without acknowledgement of the sources. Plagiarism includes  inappropriate collaboration with others. Special cases of plagiarism can arise from a  stu dent using their own previous work (termed auto - plagiarism or self - plagiarism). Self -  plagiarism includes using work that has already been submitted for assessment at this  University or for any other academic award.  32.3 The incorporation of material without formal and proper acknowledgement (even  with no deliberate intent to cheat) can constitute plagiarism. Work may be considered to  be plagiarised if it consists of:  •   a direct quotation;  •   a close paraphrase;  •   an unacknowledged summary of a source;  •   direct copying or transcription.  With regard to essays, reports and dissertations, the rule is: if information or ideas are  obtained from any source, that source must be acknowledged according to the  appropriate convention in that discipline; and any direct quotation must be placed in  quo tation marks and the source cited immediately. Any failure to acknowledge  adequately or to cite properly other sources in submitted work is plagiarism. Under  examination conditions, material learnt by rote or close paraphrase will be expected to  follow the   usual rules of reference citation otherwise it will be considered as plagiarism.  Schools should provide guidance on other appropriate use of references in examination  conditions.  32.4 Plagiarism is considered to be an act of fraudulence and an offence against the  University Code of Student Conduct. Alleged plagiarism, at whatever stage of a 47
student's studies, whether before or after graduation, will be investigated and dealt with  appropriately by the University.  32.5   The University reserves the right to use systems, such as similarity checking  software, to assist with the detection of plagiarism in the interests of improving  academic standards when assessing student work. Such systems may be externally  based.  Dealing with Plagiarism in the School of Computing Science  It is the University’s and School’s policy to deal severely with all cases of plagiarism. The  Head of School has the power to award a score of zero for work shown to have been  plagiarised, and to amend the student’s record to reflect that decision. Serious   and  repeated offences are referred to the Senate Assessors for Student Conduct, who have  the power to impose more severe penalties including suspension from the University.  Use of Plagiarism detecting software  We are very good at spotting plagiarism in Essays and Dissertations. Therefore, it is in  your best interest to eliminate plagiarised sections from your writing before submitting  it. We use a plagiarism detection system to help us identify identical or simi lar sections  of writing. We regard as plagiarism the inclusion of large sections of identical material  and so you should use plagiarism detection software before submission, to ensure that  you do not have a problem.  Contract cheating  Please note that the use of a service such as Freelancer, VWorker, Getacoder or  EssayBay (and others) to do your coursework for you is a University Disciplinary offence  which could lead to expulsion. These websites are monitored and if any of our  assignmen ts are found we will investigate further.  Anti - plagiarism guidelines  The guidelines for preparing submitted work can be summarised simply as follows:  •   Do your own work; do not expect anyone else to do any part of it for you.  •   Whenever you have good reason to include or summarise another person’s  work, acknowledge it clearly.  •   Take care not to allow any other student to copy your work.  You should, of course, discuss your work with your lecturers, supervisors, tutors, and  demonstrators, and seek help when needed. You may also discuss course materials  and formative exercises with other students   -   such discussions are a normal and  healthy p art of higher education. However, you must not discuss any summatively  assessed coursework (i.e. anything that contributes to your final grade) with other 48
students. What you submit for assessment must be   entirely your own work , meaning  that it must not include any answers, code, ideas, text, diagrams, formulae etc, whole or  in part from someone else. It must have been produced by your own efforts only.  Guidelines for software development (programs, databases, etc)  In the context of software development, plagiarism arises if you submit artefacts (e.g.  code) written by another person, presenting it as your own work.   Copying another  student’s code is never acceptable, whether the code is typed in from a hand - written  dr aft, typed in from a discarded printout, or copied electronically.  If you allow another student to copy your code, you are party to plagiarism ; note  that this includes making your code available to the public on websites such as GitHub.  If you attempt to disguise copying by, for example, changing identifiers or comments,  that does not change the fact this this is plagiarism.  If you collaborate with another student on what was meant to be an individual piece of  programming work, and if you conceal the collaboration, that is plagiarism. If you clearly  acknowledge the collaboration, that is not plagiarism, but you will be assesse d on the  basis of your share of the work only.  If you reuse program code obtained from any source (such as a web site or textbook),  that is plagiarism unless you clearly acknowledge the source. In larger programming  assignments and projects, it is legitimate to reuse code with acknowledgement, but you  will be assessed on the basis of your own code.  Examples  •   Acceptable : Student A reminds student B where to find a file of source code  provided by the lecturer.  •   Acceptable : Students A and B, discussing a programming assignment, decide  that the quick - sort algorithm would be a suitable choice; each student then goes  away and codes that algorithm independently.  •   Acceptable : Student A refers student B to a textbook example that illustrates a  programming technique relevant to the current assignment.  •   Acceptable : Student A shows student B how to use a compiler feature.  •   Unacceptable : Student A tells student B how to do the current assignment.  •   Unacceptable : Student A finds a discarded printout of a program, retypes it,  perhaps changing identifiers and comments in an attempt to disguise the  source. 49
•   Unacceptable : Student A shows student B part of a solution to the current  assignment.  •   Be careful : As above, but student B clearly acknowledges the help from student  A. Although this is not plagiarism, student B will lose marks for not completing  the assignment individually.  •   Unacceptable : Student A reuses code from a textbook, without  acknowledgement.  •   Be careful : Student A reuses code from a textbook, but acknowledges its source  by a comment prominently placed beside the code. Although this is not  plagiarism, the student will not receive marks for the reused code unless the  assignment clearly encourages such reus e.  •   Unacceptable : Students A and B collaborate on the design of a large program;  each student then goes away and implements that design.  •   Acceptable : Students A, B, C, and D work together on a team programming  assignment, stating clearly who did what.  Guidelines for essays  In the context of an essay (whether coursework or examination), plagiarism arises if you  include any text, diagrams, images, or even ideas generated by another person,  presenting these as your own work.  Occasionally it may be appropriate for you to quote another person’s words verbatim,  provided that you enclose the words in quotation marks and immediately acknowledge  their source. For example:  “Testing can prove the presence of errors, but can never prove their absence.” [Dijkstra]  Even where your essay summarises or paraphrases another person’s work, you must  still explicitly acknowledge it.  If you copy another student’s essay (or any part of it), that is plagiarism. If you allow  another student to copy your essay, you are a party to plagiarism.  If your essay includes diagrams, images, etc., taken from other sources, you must cite  these sources. Failure to cite a source would amount to presenting another person’s  work as your own, which would be plagiarism. 50
Examples  •   Acceptable : Students A and B discuss the issue that is to be the subject of an  essay assignment; both students then go away and write their essays  independently.  •   Unacceptable : Students A and B write an essay together; each student then  goes away and makes changes.  •   Unacceptable : Student A downloads an essay from an essay bank, perhaps  making changes.  •   Unacceptable : Student A asks a friend to write an essay for him/her.  Guidelines for writing project reports/dissertations  Every project culminates in a report/dissertation. This is a full account of the project  work, and may include code and/or documentation.  In the context of a report/dissertation, plagiarism arises if you include any text,  diagrams, images, data, code, documentation, or even ideas generated by another  person, presenting these as your own work.  A report/dissertation is expected to review relevant previous work. For example, every  software development project should be influenced by ideas from previous projects;  and every research project should be informed by relevant previous research. Your  repo rt/dissertation must therefore include a bibliography, which lists all books, articles,  web sites, etc. that you consulted in the course of your project. In the text of your  report/dissertation, wherever you mention previous work, you must explicitly cite   the  appropriate bibliographic item(s). Failure to cite the source would amount to an attempt  to present another person’s ideas as your own, which would be plagiarism.  Occasionally it may be appropriate for you to quote another person’s words verbatim,  provided that you enclose the words in quotation marks and immediately acknowledge  their source. For example:  “Testing can prove the presence of errors, but can never prove their absence.” [Dijkstra]  If your report/dissertation includes diagrams, images, data, etc., taken from other  sources, you must cite these sources. Failure to cite a source would amount to  presenting another person’s work as your own, which would be plagiarism. 51
Examples  •   Acceptable : The survey chapter of a student’s report summarises ideas  previously published in an article, which is listed in the bibliography and  explicitly cited in the survey chapter.  •   Unacceptable : As above, but the article is not explicitly cited in the survey  chapter.  •   Unacceptable : A student reproduces or paraphrases text from a published  article or another student’s report, without explicit acknowledgement.  •   Unacceptable : A student reproduces an image from a published article or web  site or another student’s report, without explicit acknowledgement.  •   Unacceptable : A student’s project uses data extracted from a public database  or mined from a web site, without explicit acknowledgement.  •   Unacceptable : A student’s project reuses code obtained from a textbook or web  site, without explicit acknowledgement.  •   Acceptable : In a team project, the students collaboratively write software,  documentation, and the report. Each student’s individual contribution is clearly  identified in the report.  Acceptable use of AI  You will graduate into an AI - augmented world. The University therefore has a  responsibility to prepare you for this world, providing space to experiment with, and  understand the potential of, AI in an ethical way.  Consequently, rather than seek to prohibit your use of these tools, we want to support  you in learning how to use them effectively, ethically, critically, and transparently.  You can find details of the University’s policy on the use of AI at the following link   -  https://www.gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/sld/ai/students/ 52
Appendix   4   –   Complete Progression and Award Requirements  Progression to the Masters project   requires :  •   A Taught GPA of at least 12.0 over 120 credits of taught courses, and  •   A total of at least 120 credits obtained, and  •   >= 90 credits at level M, and  •   >= 90 credits at grade D3 or above, and  •   0 credits at grades G or H.  The award of Postgraduate Diploma requires:  •   A Taught GPA of at least 9.0 over 120 credits of taught courses, and  •   A total of at least 120 credits obtained, and  •   90 credits at level M, and  •   >= 80 credits at grade D3 or above.  Students who satisfy the criteria for progress to the Masters project, but choose not to  take this option, will be awarded an early - exit Postgraduate Diploma (PGDip). They may  be eligible for an award of PGDip with Merit (Taught GPA >= 15.0) or Distinction   (Taught  GPA >= 18.0).  A student who does not satisfy the award criteria for a Postgraduate Diploma may be  eligible for a Postgraduate Certificate (PGCert) by selecting the 60 credits with the  highest achievement. Of these 60 credits, at least 40 must be at level M.  The award of Postgraduate Certificate requires:  •   A Taught GPA of at least 9.0 over 60 credits of taught courses, and  •   A total of at least 60 credits, and  •   >= 40 credits at level M, and  •   >= 40 credits at grade D3 or above.  The Postgraduate Certificate may be awarded with Merit (Taught GPA at least 15.0) or  Distinction (Taught GPA at least 18.0). Note that the Postgraduate Diploma and  Certificate are   exit awards only   and no project will take place. 53
Completing the Masters Project Stage  Students who have been given permission to proceed to the Masters project stage of  the programme will carry out a project which involves three months of full - time study.  At the end of this period students submit a dissertation which is awarded a band by th e  examiners.  The award of MSc requires:  •   satisfying the criteria for progression to the MSc project, and  •   a band of at least D3 in the project  The award of MSc with Merit requires:  •   A Total GPA >= 14.5 across 180 credits, or a Total GPA of 14.1 - 14.4 across 180  credits where >= 50% of the weighted course grade profile is B3 or above, and  •   A Taught GPA of at least 14.0 in the 120 taught credits (at first attempt only), and  •   A grade of >= C1 in the project  The award of MSc with Distinction requires:  •   A Total GPA >= 17.5 across 180 credits, or a Total GPA of 17.1 - 17.4 across 180  credits where >= 50% of the weighted course grade profile is A5 or above, and  •   A Taught GPA of at least 17.0 in the 120 taught credits (at first attempt only), and  •   A grade of >= B1 in the project  Since all students who are allowed to proceed to the Masters phase of the programme  have already satisfied the requirements for the Postgraduate Diploma, any student who  does not achieve a band D3 in the project will be awarded the appropriate Postgraduate  Diploma.  Students who achieve an E1 or worse in the project may be permitted to resubmit the  dissertation, under conditions specified by the Board of Examiners.  Note that all grade requirements for Merit and Distinction awards are for first sitting  only; that is, grades from resit examinations do not count towards Merit or Distinction  decisions. 54
