# SoCS_MSc_25_26_Intro_Enrolment_FAQs

FAQ s : Introduction and enrolment advice for incoming MSc students in  the School of Computing Science  This document provides academic advice to School of Computing Science MSc students registering  on the following programmes in September 202 5 :  MSc   CS +   programmes:  •   MSc Computing Science  •   MSc Data Science  •   MSc   Cybersecurity  MSc   IT+ programmes:  •   MSc Information Technology  •   MSc Software Development  This document does not cover non - academic matters like finance, accommodation, visas etc.  Advice should be sought from the relevant university administrative units for these matters.  Q1   -   I am seeing new terms and abbreviations related to my programme   –   what do they  mean?  Like all large organisations, the University of Glasgow and the School of Computing Science  commonly use a number of terms which are unfamiliar to newcomers. You may find the following  explanations useful:  •   UofG   –   University of Glasgow  •   SoCS   –   School of Computing Science  •   MyCampus   –   sometimes referred to in short as ‘MyC’, this is the University’s central records  system, where you will complete most administrative processes including registration and  enrolment.  •   Registration   –   the process of officially registering and becoming a student of the University on  a year - by - year basis  •   Enrolment   –   the process of selecting your courses  •   Moodle   –   the University’s virtual learning environment, where students can find all published  learning materials, coursework assignments and submissions, exams etc   –   all courses will  have their own page, referred to as the ‘course Moodle’   –   this is one of the mo st important  resources to become familiar with  •   PGT   –   Postgraduate Taught   –   this refers to the type of programme you are studying  •   CS+   - this is a collective term for our specialist MSc programmes   –   MSc Computing Science ,  MSc Data Science , and MSc   Cybersecurity  •   IT+   - this is a collective term for both of our conversion MSc programmes   –   MSc Information  Technology and MSc Software Development  Q2   -   How can I make sure that I am up to date with all of the information I need?  It is very important not only to check your student email daily, but to carefully read any  communications you receive from SoCS or the University. You should also regularly check your  course Moodles for updates and announcements on your courses, and the   2 5 /2 6   MSc Handbook
Moodle ( o pening in late August   –   students   will be notified )   for information relating to your degree  programme.  You should also refer to t he MSc Handbook   document which has been provided to all students (this  will also be embedded in the MSc Handbook Moodle   from late August), and please note that the  SoCS Admin Team will provide FAQ and information documents periodically throughout the year. The  MSc Handbook, FAQs, and information documents are all required reading for SoCS MSc students.  Q3   -   When does teaching begin?  Teaching will commence on 2 2   September 202 5 .  Q4   -   What is the latest date on which I can arrive in Glasgow to begin studying?  You are strongly advised to be on campus for the start of teaching on 2 2   September. Arriving any  later than this means that you will miss teaching and will have a detrimental effect on your learning.  This is particularly true of the IT+ programmes, which begin with an intensive period of technical  instruction that is vital for   your learning throughout the degree programme.  For those students who are unable to arrive in Glasgow for the start of teaching, the latest date of  arrival is   6   October 2024. Please note that you will be responsible for any consequences of late  arrival, and late arrival cannot be cited as the basis of a n Extenuating Circumstances   claim (the  process by which the University considers adverse circumstances which may affect your  assessments) following any assessment.  Please be advised that in almost all cases, all teaching is in person and there is no online alternative.  Students who arrive in Glasgow after the beginning of teaching will be able to access learning  materials on their course Moodles during their absence   from campus, but will not be able to take  part in teaching remotely.  Q5   -   What is involved in Registration?  Registration for SoCS MSc students open ed   on 1 1   August 202 5 . Before you can enrol, you must  register via MyCampus. You can find i n formation on Registration from the Registry’s webpages here   -  https://www.gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/registry/registration/  Registration is in two parts, Academic and Financial. Academic registration involves confirming the  details of your degree programme and personal information. Financial registration is the process by  which you will pay, or arrange to pay, your fees.   Only when at least one element of registration is  complete can students begin to enrol in their courses.  Q6   -   How many credits should I enrol for?  You are required to enrol for 120 Taught credits and the 60 - credit MSc Project.  Q7   -   How do I know which courses to enrol in?  Please see the list of courses available to your programme below.   Your compulsory courses  including the MSc Project will be enrolled for you by the SoCS Admin team.   MSc Cybersecurity  students have an entirely compulsory curriculum, all of which will be enrolled by the SoCS Admin  team.   Students will enrol electives themselves via MyCampus.
When enrolling on   MyCampus , you should select the   option ‘Enrol by My Requirements’. Your course  options will then be clearly shown to   you.   When enrolling, please ensure that you only add courses  which are available to your programme, and use only the correct course codes (some courses have  versions available to other levels which have similar names but different codes).   Please note that  enrolling in error for one course cannot provide the basis for a student to receive priority over other  students in any   other course.  Q8   -   Should I enrol for all of my Semester 1 and Semester 2 credits at the beginning of the  Academic Year?  Yes. Although there will be a limited opportunity to update your enrolments following the end of  Semester 1 (please see below), it is important for students to enrol to the total number of required  Taught   credits (120) by   6   October 202 5 .  Q9   -   What courses do I need to enrol in for Semester 1?  For most students, there is no choice of courses for the first semester. The only choice that needs to  be made for Semester 1 is for MSc Computing Science students, who will choose one of two  courses as noted below.  Please see the table   overleaf   for information on your Semester 1 enrolments, organised by  programme.
Semester 1 Enrolments  All Sem 1 courses are compulsory unless stated  MSc Computing Science   COMPSCI4084 Programming and Systems Development  COMPSCI5089 Introduction to Data Science  COMPSCI5092 Research & Professional Skills  ***  COMPSCI5077 Enterprise   Cybersecurity *  or  COMPSCI5100 Machine Learning/AI for DS*  *the SoCS Admin team will be in contact separately in relation to  this choice  MSc Data Science   COMPSCI4084 Programming and Systems Development  COMPSCI5089 Introduction to Data Science  COMPSCI5092 Research & Professional Skills  COMPSCI5100 Machine Learning & AI for DS  MSc   Cybersecurity   COMPSCI4084 Programming and Systems Development  COMPSCI5092 Research & Professional Skills  COMPSCI5077 Enterprise   Cybersecurity  COMPSCI5120 Principles of   Cybersecurity  MSc Information Technology  and  MSc Software Development  COMPSCI4039 Programming  COMPSCI5076 Database and   Data   Analytics  COMPSCI4043 Systems and Networks  COMPSCI5059 Software Engineering (Sem 1&2)  COMPSCI5077 Enterprise   Cybersecurity
Q10   -   What courses do I need to enrol in for Semester 2?  For the second semester you will have a choice of courses (electives) and possibly some  compulsory courses depending on your degree programme. All compulsory courses will be enrolled  by the SoCS Admin team .  Note that   the timetable of some elective courses may not be finalised   yet. Once we have timetabled  them, it may be the case that some   elective   combinations will not be possible because of timetable  clashes.   Unfortunately a small number of clashes are inevitable each year. Those courses which  cannot be taken in conjunction with one another due to timetabling issues are noted below.  Please take careful note of the course codes   listed for your degree programme ; there may be other  courses in the system with similar names, but with different course codes. You must make sure your  enrolment uses the correct course codes. Students who are enrolled to an incorrect version of a  course will be unenrolled by the SoCS Ad min team, and will not have priority for a place on the  correct version if this is full.  Please enrol for a full 120 credits of Taught courses prior to beginning your programme. Please note  that although students will have a limited opportunity to update their Semester 2 enrolments at the  conclusion of Semester 1 (the second Add/Drop period),   the ability to make these changes will be  dependent on the availability of places, and changes cannot be guaranteed. Students are advised,  as far as possible, to enrol to a full 120 credits of courses which you are satisfied with at the outset of  enrolment , prior to the commencement of teaching.  Please see the table s   in the following pages   for your Semester 2 enrolments   by programme .   Clashes  are identified under each programme.
Semester 2 Enrolments  MSc Computing Science   Choose six of the following courses:  COMPSCI5107 Web Science for MSc  COMPSCI5011 Information Retrieval  COMPSCI5103 Deep Learning for MSc*  COMPSCI5088 Big Data  COMPSCI 5106 Text as Data for MSc  ***  (Security Courses) **  COMPSCI5063   Cybersecurity   Fundamentals for MSc  COMPSCI5060 Human Centred Security  COMPSCI5079 Cryptography and Secure Development  COMPSCI5080   Cyber System   Forensics  COMPSCI5119   Secure Programming in Rust  ***  COMPSCI5104 Secured Software Engineering for MSc  COMPSCI5012 Internet Technology  COMPSCI5057 HCI Design and Evaluation  COMPSCI5099 Information Visualisation  COMPSCI5112 Mobile HCI for MSc  *COMPSCI5103 Deep Learning can only be taken if  COMPSCI5100 Machine Learning and AI is taken in S1  **If COMPSCI5077 Enterprise   Cybersecurity   is not taken in S1, at  least one Security course must be taken  MSc CS Clashes:  COMPSCI5011 Information Retrieval   cannot be taken with   COMP SCI5057   HCI Design and Evaluation  COMPSCI 5012 Internet Technolo gy   cannot be taken with   COMPSCI5080 Cyber S ystem Forensics  COMPSCI 5099   In formation Visualisation   cannot be   taken with   COMPSCI5119 Se cure Programming in  R UST  COMPSCI 5 107   Web S cience for MSc   cannot be   taken with   COMPSCI5119 Se cure Programming in  R UST  Students cannot select all three of   COMPSCI 5060 Human Centred Security ,   COMPSCI5088 Big Data ,  and   COMPSCI5106 Text as Data   (any two can be selected together)
MSc Data Science   Choose at least four of the following courses:  COMPSCI5107 Web Science for MSc  COMPSCI5011 Information Retrieval  COMPSCI5103 Deep Learning for MSc  COMPSCI5088 Big Data  COMPSCI5106 Text as Data for MSc  Choose at least one of the following courses:  COMPSCI5063   Cybersecurity   Fundamentals for MSc  COMPSCI5060 Human Centred Security  COMPSCI5079 Cryptography and Secure Development  COMPSCI5080   Cyber System   Forensics  COMPSCI5119   Secure Programming in Rust  Choose at most one of the following courses:  COMPSCI5104 Secured Software Engineering for MSc  COMPSCI5012 Internet Technology  COMPSCI5057 HCI Design and Evaluation  COMPSCI5099 Information Visualisation  COMPSCI5112 Mobile HCI for MSc  MSc   D S Clashes:  COMPSCI5011 Information Retrieval   cannot be taken with   COMP SCI5057   HCI Design and Evaluation  COMPSCI 5012 Internet Technolo gy   cannot be taken with   COMPSCI5080 Cyber S ystem Forensics  COMPSCI 5099   In formation Visualisation   cannot be   taken with   COMPSCI5119 Se cure Programming in  R UST  COMPSCI 5 107   Web S cience for MSc   cannot be   taken with   COMPSCI5119 Se cure Programming in  R UST  Students cannot select all three of   COMPSCI 5060 Human Centred Security ,   COMPSCI5088 Big Data ,  and   COMPSCI5106 Text as Data   (any two can be selected together)
MSc   Cybersecurity   All   courses   are compulsory :  COMPSCI5060 Human Centred Security  COMPSCI5079 Cryptography and Secure Development  COMPSCI5080   Cyber System   Forensics  COMPSCI5110   Emerging Topics in   Cybersecurity  COMPSCI4091   Advanced Networked Systems (H)  COMPSCI5119   Secure Programming in Rust  MSc C sec   Clashes:   n/a
MSc Information Technology  Compulsory Courses:  COMPSCI5074 IT+ Team Project  COMPSCI5059 Software Engineering (Sem 1&2)  Choose four of the following courses:  COMPSCI5002 Programming   for AI  COMPSCI 5004 Algorithms & Data Structures  COMPSCI5012 Internet Technology  COMPSCI5057 HCI Design and Evaluation  COMPSCI5099 Information Visualisation  COMPSCI5063   Cybersecurity   Fundamentals for MSc  COMPSCI5080 Cyber System Forensics  MSc   IT   Clash :  COMPSCI 5012 Internet Technolo gy   cannot be taken with   COMPSCI5080 Cyber S ystem Forensics  MSc Software Development  Compulsory Courses:  COMPSCI5074 IT+ Team Project  COMPSCI5059 Software Engineering (Sem 1&2)  COMPSCI5002   Programming for AI  COMPSCI 5004 Algorithms & Data Structures  Choose   two   of the following courses:  COMPSCI5012 Internet Technology  COMPSCI5057 HCI Design and Evaluation  COMPSCI5099 Information Visualisation  COMPSCI5063   Cybersecurity   Fundamentals for MSc  COMPSCI5080   Cyber System   Forensics  MSc   SD   Clash :  COMPSCI 5012 Internet Technolo gy   cannot be taken with   COMPSCI5080 Cyber S ystem Forensics
Q11   -   What courses do I need to enrol in for Semester 3?  This is the Project semester, and only the appropriate MSc Project course is required. The SoCS  Admin team will enrol you to your Project course.  Q12   -   Are there any other courses I will enrol in?  Yes, there is a zero - credit course that we use for administrative purposes only. The SoCS Admin  team will enrol you to the appropriate version of this course:  IT+   -   COMPSCI9008  CS+   -   COMPSCI9009  All UofG students are required to complete the Academic Writing Skills Programme   (AWSP) , which is  administered by our colleagues in the Student Learning   Development team (SLD)   -  https://www.gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/sld/awsp/forstudents/  You will be automatically enrolled to the course.   You can expect SLD to contact you in week 2 of  teaching to arrange your AWSP   assessment.  Q1 3   -   Where can I get help with enrolment?  For guidance on the enrolment process within MyCampus, please contact the Registration and  Enrolment Support team ( https://www.gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/students/sset/rest/ ).  The SoCS Admin   T eam can also provide assistance with enrolment via the   SoCS Helpdesk , and will  also operate enrolment drop - in sessions 10am   –   12pm on Tuesdays and Thursdays from w/b 18  August until the start of teaching in Boyd Orr Lab 1028 (BO1028).  Enquiries received   by   the SoCS   Admin Team   will be responded to within 5 working days during the  enrolment period. If one or more of your preferred courses fill up during this response period, or  while you await a drop - in session in BO1028, you will not have priority for a place on the course(s)  o ver those students who have successfully enrolled themselves. For this reason, students are  advised to complete as much of their enrolment as possible themselves, and to complete  enrolment including the submission o f necessary lab change requests   (see below)   as soon as  possible.  Q1 4   -   Are   SoCS elective courses open   to other degree programmes ?  Yes,   certain   SoCS elective courses   are available to degree programmes in other Schools,   and SoCS  students will not receive priority in enrolment over   eligible students on other programmes.   For this  reason, you are encouraged to complete your enrolment as soon as possible.
Q1 5   -   How are places on popular courses distributed to students?  It is expected that several of our elective courses will reach capacity, so it is necessary to take a  strict approach to the distribution of places on elective courses.   A ll elective course places will be  distributed on a first - come - first - served basis via MyCampus. No student will be added to a course  which is elective for their programme when the course is full.  SoCS will   not   operate waiting lists for closed SoCS PGT electives.   Where additional places become  free in closed courses ( by e.g. expansion of capacity or enrolled students dropping the course) , they  will be   generally   available   on a first - come - first - served basis to all eligible students via MyCampus.  The SoCS   Admin team will not facilitate swaps between students, or the transfer of a place to  another specified student.  Students are advised to   exercise great care when selecting electives , particularly when dropping  courses. When a student drops a course, they will not have priority over any other student   for a place  on that or another course . This will be the case even where students have dropped courses in error.  Q1 6   -   What about labs and tutorials? Some of the courses have lab and tutorial sessions  associated with them? What classes should I enrol in?  In most cases when manually enrolling elective courses you will have a choice of lab sections, and  should select them based on what most suits your timetable. You may find that some course  combinations do not work with a given lab section, but may work wit h an alternative.  Pleas e attempt to make your choices fit before contacting the School for assistance.   However, do  not drop your compulsory courses or full electives in order to adjust labs. Contact the SoCS admin  team via the   SoCS Helpdesk   or at the enrolment drop - in   (and not via any other channel) to request  this change. If this change is possible, it will be actioned by the SoCS   A dmin team. If you manually  drop an elective course in order to change the lab time, and find that your place has been taken by  another student before you can re - enrol, you will be obliged to select another available course   –   you  will not be added back to the course when it is full .  The SoCS Admin team will fulfil requests to change labs (or confirm that this is not possible) within  five   working days. Where these requests are completed within the timescale, a lab change request  will not result in a student having priority for a place on a course over any other student. For  example, if a student requests a lab change on Course A to allow e nrolment on Course B, and  Course B becomes full while awaiting completion of the lab change, the student will   not have priority  for a place on   Course   B. The lab change procedure and timescale are essential and unavoidable   –   in  order to avoid disappointment students are advised to act quickly to fulfil their enrolments and  submit any necessary lab change requests without delay.  Please note that the SoCS Admin team may in certain circumstances be obliged to change your lab  time(s) on a given SoCS course which you are enrolled to. This will only be done in order to increase  the availability of courses, and the provision of places t o the maximum number of students will take  precedence over other scheduling considerations and preferences.   Students should expect to  attend scheduled classes at any time Mon - Fri, 9am   –   6pm, and necessary lab changes will be made  regardless of your existin g timetable.   Where it is necessary to select one or more students from a
larger number for this process, this selection will be made randomly.   It is likely that most students  will experience this at least once, so please be prepared.  Where courses include tutorials, it is more common for only one tutorial option to be provided, in  which case you should select the only tutorial available. Should there be a choice of tutorials, please  treat them as you would the labs above.  Q1 7   -   Is there a deadline for enrolment in the courses?  It is important to enrol in your courses as soon as possible, and ideally before the beginning of  teaching on   2 2   September. Note that there will be a limited opportunity to change your enrolment  after this date if your plans change, but please make an initial selection by   2 2   September. By this  date, you   should   be enrolled in exactly 180 credits: 120 credits of taught courses and the 60 credit  MSc   P roject. It is your responsibility to ensure that you are correctly enrolled.  Your enrolment must be complete and finalised by   6   October   –   although there will be a limited  opportunity to update your Semester 2 enrolments at the end of Semester 1.  Q18   -   Why does MyC say things like ‘requirements not satisfied’?  In the case of that message, because you have not started studying yet, so you have not satisfied any  degree requirements! MyCampus can provide   messages which are confusing to those un familiar  with the system. Provided you follow the enrolment instructions that we give you, and you enrol in a  full 180 credits, your enrolment will be correct.  Q19   -   Where can I find out more information?  Don’t forget to attend the Enrolment/ Induction meetings, which are being held in - person. The details  of the meetings   will be published on the MSc Handbook Moodle   in early September .  You can also find lots of useful information for new students via the University’s webpages:  https://www.gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/students/new/  https://www.gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/students/sset/  https://www.gla.ac.uk/international/support/  Q20   -   What should I do if I want to change to another programme?  The guidance for changing programme is:  •   Changes of programme will be made at the discretion of the relevant Programme Director (s) ,  and   are not guaranteed . If you change your programme once, we will not change it   again .  •   Changes   which are permitted are normally between programmes   in the same cohort group, ie  those in   CS+ or   in   IT+   -   typically, students   cannot   move   from CS+ to IT+ or vice versa  •   Please remember that the degree that you have been given an offer for is the one you have  applied for, and for which we have determined you are suitable for. Please do not change  degree programme simply because you can   –   think carefully about what it means . Please also  think about what it means with respect to any visa, scholarship or employment  documentation or constraints you might have that are specifically associated with the name  of your original degree programme.  •   Please note that programme changes will not be permitted where there is insufficient teaching  capacity   –   for example, switching your programme to the MSc Data Science when there are  insufficient places on the School’s Data Science courses
•   Please do not make a request for change of programme before you have completed your  University of Glasgow MyCampus registration. Your email request must come from your  university student email address ( @student.gla.ac.uk ).  Q21   -   After I have enrolled, where can I get information about my classes?  Once your GUID is active, you will have access to the University Moodle site  ( https://moodle.gla.ac.uk/ ) .   E ach of your courses   will operate a Moodle page specific to that course,  where course materials, schedules, and announcements will be published .   SoCS PGT Moodles will  open in early September.   Once   the Moodles are open , you will be automatically added to the  corresponding Moodle page for   each   course   you are enrolled to on MyCampus .  Q22   -   Is attendance at my classes compulsory?  Yes. Once you arrive on campus, you are expected to attend all of your scheduled classes.  Attendance is vital for your learning and engagement, and experience shows that those students  who attend as expected perform better in their assessments than   those who don’t.  Also, many of our PGT students are studying in Glasgow on a   S tudent   V isa, and the   University   has the  responsibility of monitoring your attendance for this purpose.   During Semesters 1 and 2, visa  monitoring is done via the SafeZone app. Students are required to check in at all scheduled classes,  and this information is used to monitor engagement for visa purposes. Check in can only be done at  the physical location of   the scheduled class.   Should you miss   check ins , you will be expected to  provide an explanati on, and all of this information is held for reporting to UKVI.
