# SoCS_MSc_GPA_Guide

Understanding   and   Cal culating   Your   GPA  As you will know,   SoCS   MSc   student s requ ire an overall GPA of 12.0 (equivalent to C3) in order to  progress to the MSc Project. If your   GPA from Semester 1 is below 12.0, you will require to im prove  your GPA in order   to progress directly to the Project in June.   Students who do not hav e a sufficient  GPA to progres s in June will   either be allowed to progress with the requirem ent to succes sfully  complete   resits, or   be delayed until September in order to   focus on resit   exams   in the August diet.  T his   decision is made on a case - by - case basis by the Programme Directo rs.  How is GPA   calculated?  To calculate a GPA, we first establish what value each individual course grade has on the University's  22 - point grade scale ( https://www.gla.ac.uk/media/Media_124293_smxx.pdf ) . In the 22 - point scale,  each possible result is defined by a 'primary grade' (eg A, B, C) and a 'se c ondary band' (eg B1, B2,  B3). So if a student has the grade of C2, the primary grade is C and the secondary band is C2.  All primary grades are made up of three secondary bands except A (five bands), G (two bands), and  H (primary grade only). Each secondary band corresponds to a number on the 22 - point scale. For  example, a B1 has a value of 17.  Once we are aware of the correct secondary bands corresponding to the 22 - point scale, these  secondary bands are used for the GPA calculation. The method used in the University's Code of  Assessment is to divide the number of credits available for a given co urse by the total number of  credits being reviewed, multiply this number by the grade scale number achieved for that course,  and then add the resulting numbers from this calculation for all courses together. This total is then  rounded to one decimal point,   producing the GPA.  Example 1 : Ayesha is studying the MSc Computing Science, with 120 Taught credits.  Band   22PG   Credits   GPA value  B2   16   20   (20/120) x 16 = 2.66667  C2   13   15   (15/120) x 13 = 1.625  C1   14   15   (15/120) x 14 = 1.75  D3   9   10   (10/120) x 9 = 0.75  A5   18   10   (10/120) x 18 = 1.5  B3   15   10   (10/120) x 15 = 1.25  B1   17   10   (10/120) x 17 = 1.41667  C3   12   10   (10/120) x 12 = 1  C1   14   10   (10/120) x 14 = 1.16667  C3   12   10   (10/120) x 12 = 1  Unrounded GPA:   14.125  Final GPA:   14.1
How will resits affect the GPA?  When considering how far a given resit can improve your GPA, it is important to remember that  capped resits (those   resulting from a grade of D1 or below) have grade points capped at C3 (as  opposed to uncapped resits resulting from MV grades, which are not capped). It is also important to  remember that any improvement in a given course will be aggregated across the full   120 Taught  credits.  Capping  As resits are capped at C3, the maximum improvement available in any one course is the difference  between your first attempt grade and C3. For example, if Xiao has a D1 in a course, the maximum  improvement available in that course is one secondary band, be cause he can only improve from D1  to C3 (or from 11 to 12 on the 22 - point scale). On the other hand, if Xiao has an F2 in the course, he  can improve by up to 8 secondary bands, because of the difference between F2 and C3 (4 to 12).  Workload and Progression  The workload required for progression is one of the factors considered by the Progression Board.  The effect of capping means that the workload required for a student to progress following resits  can actually be larger where a student has narrowly missed C3   in a number of courses than where a  much lower grade in one course is reducing the GPA below the 12.0 threshold. For example, Tola  and Mohammed both have a GPA of 11.8. Tola needs to resit four courses graded D, whereas  Mohammed needs to resit only one co urse graded F. As a result, in order to improve the GPA to the  required level, Mohammed has to prepare for one examination, whereas Tola has to prepare for  four. In this illustrative example, Mohammed would be more likely to be approved for conditional  pro gression due to the anticipated workload.  Aggregation  Any improvement in a particular course will contribute to the overall average just as it does at first  sitting so, effectively, improvement in one course is 'spread out' across the full 120 Taught credits.  This means that improvement in a given course ofte n doesn't have as strong an effect on GPA as a  student might expect.  As a rough guide when considering how far your GPA will be improved by a better resit  performance, an improvement of three secondary bands (eg from D3 to C3) in one 10 - credit course  will improve a 120 - credit GPA before rounding by approximately 0.25.  Example 2 :  As an illustration, we will adjust one of Ayesha's results from Example 1. The original result was a D3  in a 10 - credit course:  Band   22PG   Credits   GPA value  D3   9   10   (10/120) x 9 = 0.75  If she improves this to the capped maximum of C3, the calculation will look like this:
Band   22PG   Credits   GPA value  C3   12   10   (10/120) x 12 =   1  This improvement has added a further 0.25 to her original unrounded GPA of 14.125, making the  new unrounded GPA 14.375. This is then rounded to 14.4.  Example 3 :  Tom has an F2 grade in one 10 - credit course:  Band   22PG   Credits   GPA value  F2   4   10   (10/120) x 4 = 0.33333  He then improves to D2 at the resit:  Band   22PG   Credits   GPA value  D2   10   10   (10/120) x 10 = 0.83333  The improvement of 6 secondary bands has resulted in an unrounded 120 - credit GPA increase of  0.5.  Example 4 :  Ying   has an E1 in a 15 - credit course:  Band   22PG   Credits   GPA value  E1   8   15   (15/120) x 8 = 1  She then improves her grade to the capped maximum of C3:  Band   22PG   Credits   GPA value  C3   12   15   (15/120) x 12 = 1.5  The improvement of four secondary bands in   a 15 - credit course has resulted in an unrounded 120 -  credit GPA increase of 0.5.  Uncapped Resits and Aggregation  If you have been delayed or conditionally progressed because you need to take uncapped resits (ie  exams taken as a first sitting following an MV grade), please be cautious in calculating how your  updated grades will affect your GPA.
This is because when an MV grade is awarded for a course, no credit has been awarded yet, so the  credits available for a course graded MV aren't taken into account in your GPA calculation. If, after  the Apr/May exams, you have both 22 - point scale grades (i e A1, B2, C3 etc) and also have one or  more MV grades, your GPA as it stands is calculated only from the total of completed credits   with  22 - point scale grades .  For example, if you have one MV grade out of 120 credits, when calculating the GPA value of a  course that does have a 22 - point grade, the credits available for that course are divided by 110,  rather than by 120, before being multiplied by the   22 - point grade number.  Example 5 :  To illustrate this, we will adjust Ayesha's grades from Example 1 above. The grade of B3 in a 10 -  credit course has become an MV in the list below. As a result, the GPA value is calculated by dividing  by 110:  Band   22PG   Credits   GPA value  B2   16   20   (20/110) x 16 = 2.90909  C2   13   15   (15/110) x 13 = 1.77273  C1   14   15   (15/110) x 14 = 1.90909  D3   9   10   (10/110) x 9 = 0.81818  A5   18   10   (10/110) x 18 = 1.63636  MV   15   10   N/A  B1   17   10   (10/110) x 17 = 1.54545  C3   12   10   (10/110) x 12 = 1.09091  C1   14   10   (10/110) x 14 = 1.27273  C3   12   10   (10/110) x 12 = 1.09091  Unrounded GPA:   14.04545  Final GPA:   14.0  If Ayesha takes the uncapped resit, and attains a B3 grade, then the GPA calculation is the one you  see above at   Example 1.  Estimating the effect of replacing MV grades on your GPA  The surest way of establishing the effect of replacing an MV grade with a given 22 - point grade is to  perform the full calculations you see in Examples 1 and 5 above, and compare the   two. Where a  student is delayed or conditionally progressed pending uncapped resits, the relevant Programme  Director will perform these full calculations for each student in order to be able to advise on the  level of performance required to meet the GPA th reshold (unless the GPA is comfortably within the  requirements, in which case students are advised simply to pass the course in order to be awarded  credit).
It is more difficult to provide a rough estimate of how a given 22 - point grade replacing an MV will  affect your overall GPA. The principle described above, that an improvement of 3 secondary bands in  a 10 - credit course will provide an overall 120 - credit GP A improvement of approximately 0.25 on the  unrounded total, still applies in general terms. However, it is more complicated in this situation,  because improvement has to be estimated against your average GPA, which is likely to be expressed  using decimal p oints, as opposed to estimating improvement against an existing grade which is  expressed in whole numbers.  So for example, if a student happens to have a GPA of exactly 11.0 (equivalent to D1) with one MV,  we can safely say that replacing the MV with a C1 (14) will have the effect of improving the  unrounded total by approximately 0.25. If the same student had a   GPA of 10.8 and replaced the MV  with a C1, the overall unrounded improvement would be slightly higher than 0.25, because the gap  between the GPA and the 22 - point value of the new grade is larger. Similarly, if the same student  had a GPA of 11.2 and replac ed the MV with a C1, the unrounded improvement would be smaller.  There are of course many variations of these scenarios which are possible. If you are in any doubt as  to whether replacing an MV with a particular grade will be sufficient for progression, perform the full  calculations as described above.
