# 0_getting_started

Unix   Tutorial   0:   Accessing   the   Terminal  Jeremy   Singer  This   week   we   are   doing   a   deep   dive   into   Unix.   You   need   to   go   through   a series   of   practical   worksheets   to   gain   experience   with   using   the   Unix   terminal.  There   are   different   options   for   accessing   Linux,   which   we   outline   below. Read   through   the   sheet   and   work   out   which   option   is   best   for   you.   Our   lab tutors   will   be   available   to   help   and   advise   each   afternoon   this   week.  Windows  On   Windows   10   or   11,   install   and   activate   WSL   (official   instructions   at   https: //learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install )   then   you   can   use   the terminal   natively   in   Windows   with   wsl.exe .   Installation   might   take   several hours ,   especially   on   a   wireless   connection.  If   you   are   more   adventurous,   install   a   virtual   machine   (VM)   using   Virtual- Box   (see   https://www.virtualbox.org/ )   and   then   choose   your   Linux   distri- butionprobably   Ubuntu   22.04.3   LTS   unless   you   have   a   strong   preference.  If   you   are   super   adventurous—but   only   do   this   if   you   have   backed   up   your system—you   could   partition   your   drive   and   install   Linux   natively   as   a   dual   boot option.   This   is   quite   complex   and   will   take   time.  You   might   also   decide   to   use   an   online   VM   from   Amazon   Web   Services, Windows   Azure   or   similar.   Watch   out!   You   will   need   to   sign   up   for   an   account and   probably   have   to   give   them   your   credit   card   details.   This   will   allow   you to   access   the   server   via   the   ssh   tool,   which   you   should   be   able   to   find   in   your command   prompt.  The   university   has   set   up   a   Azure   VM   that   might   work,   at   IP   address  10.224.160.71 .   This   server   is   only   accessible   on   the   University   campus   or with   the   UoG   VPN.   Use   your   GUID   credentials   to   login   -   although   this   might not   work(?!)  $   ssh   2412345a@10.224.160.71  Mac  If you   are running macOS then you already own   a Unix system—congratulations! You   can   run   all   the   text-based   commands   via   the   Terminal   app.   Some   com-  1
mands   might   require   you   to   install   extra   binary   tools:   we   recommend   using  homebrew   to   do   this.   See   https://brew.sh/   for   installation   instructions 1 .  Alternatively,   you   can   run   VirtualBox   on   your   Mac   and   install   a   Linux VM   image,   following   the   same   steps   as   for   Windows   PC.   See   https://www. virtualbox.org/   for   downloads.   Note   this   works   fine   on   Intel   and   Apple   Silicon Macs.  The   alternative   is   to   run   ssh   from   your   terminal   app   to   connect   to   a   remote Linux   server   on   your   Mac.   Generally,   you   do   something   like:  $   ssh   username@hostname.com  to   connect   to   a   remote   server.  1 If   you   are   observant,   you’ll   see   that   I   am   running   macOS   plus   brew   for   all   the   tutorial videos   I   recorded!  2
