# 1_files

Unix Tutorial 1: Files in Linux  Log   in   to   your   Unix   system   with   your   username   and   password,   then   open a   bash   shell.   On   the   Glasgow   remote   Linux   setup,   you   drop   into   a   shell   auto- matically   with   your   ssh   login.   On   a   Linux   laptop,   you   should   execute   command  gnome-terminal   or   xterm   to   start   a   bash   shell   in   a   window.   On   a   Mac   machine, you   should   execute   the   Terminal   application.   On   Windows,   if   you   have   WSL installed,   the   wsl   command   will   drop   you   into   a   shell.  Type   a   simple   command,   e.g.  $   date  Press   Enter   after   typing   in   date.   The   system   should   print   out   the   current   date and   time.   Try   a   few   more   simple   commands   . . .  $   hostname  $   whoami  $   cal   2023  and   observe   the   output.   To   quit   your   bash   session,   either   type   exit or   press  ctrl   +   D   together.  Now   we   are   going   to   practise   file   manipulations,   moving   around   the   directory hierarchy.   The   special   directory   ˜   is   your   home   directory,   and   /   is   the   root directory.   Try   this:  $   cd   /  $   ls  $   cd   ˜  $   ls  Two   more   special   directories   are   ‘dot’   .   (the   current   directory)   and   ‘dot dot’   ..   (the   parent   directory).   Another   useful   command   is   pwd   which   shows the   current   directory   you   are   in.  Challenge :   When   you   first   login   to   your   system,   how   many   directories   do you   have   to   go   up   (with   cd   .. )   to   reach   the   root   directory?   Use   pwd   to   work out   when   you   reach   the   root.  Now   we   are   going   to   create   some   files.   We   will   use   the   cat   command   to   write a   string   of   characters   into   plaintext   files.  $   cat   >   a.txt  The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog.  You   will   need   to   press   Enter   then   ctrl   +   D   after   typing   the   words   in   the sentence.   Here,   ctrl   +   D   means   ‘end   of   file’.  You   can   run   ls   again,   to   show   that   file   a.txt   is   now   in   your   home   directory. Execute   some   more   commands:  $   cp   a.txt b.txt  $   ls  $   mv   a.txt fox.txt  $   cp   fox.txt f.txt  1
Now   we   want   to   create   a   new   directory   and   move   all   the   files   into   this directory.  $   mkdir   tutorial1  $   ls  $   mv   * .txt tutorial1  $   cd   tutorial1  $   ls  $   cd   ..  Now   suppose   we   want   to   save   this   directory   as   a   compressed   zip   archive called   files.zip.  $   cd   ˜  $   zip   -r files. zip   tutorial1  $   ls   -lh  The   zip   file   has   been   created   in   your   home   directory.   It   should   only   be   a   few bytes   in   size.   Now   let’s   delete   the   original   files   and   directory   that   we   created.  $   cd   tutorial1  $   rm   * .txt  $   cd   ..  $   rmdir   tutorial1  If   you   try   to   execute   the   rmdir   command   when   the   directory   is   not   empty, it   will   fail   and   give   you   an   error   message.   However   there   is   a   quicker   way   to delete   a   directory   and   all   its   contents.   Try   this:  $   unzip   files. zip  to   restore   the   tutorial1   directory   and   its   contents.   Use   the   cd   and   ls   com- mands   to   check   the   files   are   all   present.   Now,   to   delete   the   tutorial1   directory in   one   go:  $   cd   ˜  $   rm   -rf tutorial1  The   r   flag   stands   for   ‘recursive’   and   f   for   ‘force’.   Use   this   command   with caution!   In   his   book   Creativity   Inc. ,   Ed   Catmull   describes   how   most   of   the graphics   from   Toy   Story   2   were   wiped   from   Pixar’s   filestore   by   careless   use   of the   rm   command.   Google   for   rm   toy   story   2   to   find   out   the   details.  Questions  1. If   cd   ..   moves   to   the   parent   directory,   then   what   is   the   parent   directory of   root   /   ?  2. Why   is   the   following   command   a   very   bad   idea?   rm   -rf   /  2
3. In   your   bash   prompt,   what   does   the   cursor   arrow   do?   What   about ?  4. Some   commands   (like   ls   and   rm )   take   extra   option   flags   or   switches.   See if   you   can   find   out   the   switches   for   the   following   (using   Google   or   man ):  •   listing   all   files   in   a   directory   in   order   of   modification,   with   most recently   modified   first?  •   listing   all   files   in   a   directory   in   order   of   modification,   with   most recently   modified   last?  •   removing   a   file,   with   an   interactive   check   where   the   user   has   to   type  y   if   they   really   want   to   remove   the   file?  Further Reading  For   further   investigation   today,   use   the   man   command   to   find   out   the   flags   for all   the   commands   you   have   already   executed.   For   instance,   you   might   run   man cat   to   Find   out   how   the   cat   command   works   in   more   detail—you   can   use   cat both   to   print   out   existing   text   files,   to   create   new   ones   and   to   append   to   existing files.   You   press   q   to   quit   the   man   page   viewer   and   return   to   the   terminal.  There   are   plenty   of   helpful   file   handling   tutorials   online,   some   examples below:  •   https://ryanstutorials.net/linuxtutorial/filemanipulation.php  •   https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/navigating-filesystem-linux-terminal  •   https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/Linux-file-navigation-commands  3
