# 2022-lab-exam-part1-python

Question   1  Not yet answered Marked out of 25.00  v1 (latest)  Part 1: Python  Problem:   A bus company determines the ticket price based on the passenger’s age. Passengers 2 years of age and less should travel for free (£0). Children between 3 and 12 years of age cost £7 each. The ticket price for seniors aged 66 and over costs £13 each. The ticket price for any other passengers should cost £18 each. You are required to create a program that begins by reading the ages of all the passengers in a group, one age entered at a time. You should write the code for each task below in the same   python source   fi le , as indicated below. You should then submit   your source  fi le   through Moodle as described at the end. Your   fi le should be named   your_name_python_task.py   (replace "your_name" with your actual name).  Python Task 1a: tkinter GUI  Create a program that should display the following screen   [4 marks]:  Python Task 1b: Database and computing the bus price for a group travelling to the city  The programme should save each passenger’s age and each ticket price in a database when the “Save” button is clicked, and the window should be automatically cleared to allow the next passenger’s age to be entered.   [6 marks].   The database should be called   TravelPrice .   [1 mark].  If a user clicks the button “Display age”, the system should display all the passengers’ age saved in the database.   [3 marks]  If a user clicks the button “Display ticket price”, the system should display the ticket price per passenger’s age saved in the database. Note: Each ticket price must correspond to the passenger’s age   [3 marks]  If a user clicks the “Display cost” button, the system should display the total cost for the journey for that group of passengers.   [5 marks]  It should clear all three Display windows and delete everything from the database when the “Clear All” button is clicked   (if the program is restarted and the Display buttons are clicked, nothing should appear)   [2 marks]
Python submission  Ensure your submission   fi le is named exactly as it is supposed to (i.e.   your_name _ python_task.py ). Submit the   fi nal version of the   fi le including all of the above tasks. Maximum   fi le size: 100 MB, maximum number of   fi les: 1    Files          You can drag and drop   fi les here to add them.  
