# 5_latex

Unix Tutorial 5: L A T E X  Today,   we   are   going   to   introduce   the   L A TEX   system   for   document   processing. If   you   are   running   your   own   Linux   distro,   you   might   want   to   install   the   software for   yourself.   On   Ubuntu,   try  $ sudo apt install texlive-full  If   your   Ubuntu   distro   is   not   fully   up-to-date,   you   may   need   to   run   this   command first   ...  $ sudo apt update  to   refresh   the   package   index.  Or   on   a   Mac,   download   MacTeX   from   https://www.tug.org/mactex/   and install   the   dmg   file.   Note   these   installations   are   multi-GBs,   so   will   take   a   long  time   to   download.  The alternative   approach (and probably   easier!)   is to use   https://overleaf. com .   This   is   a   cloud-based   L A TEX   service.   You   will   need   to   set   up   an   account. Because   the   University   has   a   subscription   to   this   service,   you   should   be   able   to access   Pro   features   for   free   by   registering   with   your   Uni   email   address.   Check out   https://www.overleaf.com/edu/glasgow   for   details.  Your first document  With   L A TEX,   you   write   a   script   that   specifies   the   markup   for   the   final   document (like   markdown   or   HTML).   Then   you   compile   this   script   into   a   pdf   to   view   the rendered   document.   We   recommend   that   you   use   L A TEX   for   reports   in   PSD(H) and   for   your   Honours   dissertation   in   your   final   year   project.   So   it’s   worth investing   some   time   to   learn   the   tool   now   . . .  Below   is   the   simple   scaffolding—the   minimal   number   of   macros   that   you need   for   a   simple   document.  \ documentclass { article }  \ begin { document }  Hello world.  \ end { document }  Create   this   file   in   vim,   save   it   as   firstdoc.tex.   Now   you   can   turn   it   into   a pdf   and   view   it:  $ pdflatex firstdoc.tex  $ evince firstdoc.pdf &  Note   that   the   evince   tool   requires   a   Window   manager—you   need   to   be   run- ning   with   a   GUI   rather   than   a   terminal.   Other   pdf   viewing   apps   are   available, such   as   Acrobat   Reader,   pdf.js   (Mozilla)   and   Preview.app   (Mac).   In   fact,   on   a Mac   you   just   have   to   type   open   firstdoc.pdf   in   the   terminal   and   it   loads   the Preview   app   directly.  1
If   you   are   using   Overleaf,   then   you   simply   enter   the   L A TEX   source   code   into the   middle   pane,   and   click   to   recompile   the   PDF   in   the   right   hand   pane.  Now   let’s   add   some   more   complex   markup   to   firstdoc.tex,   for   instance   . . .  In   \ LaTeX , you may use   \ textit { italic }   and   \ textbf { bold }   face fonts.  It is also possible to have   \ texttt { typewriter }   and  \ textsf { sans−serif }   fonts.  You may change the font size from   {\ tiny   very small }  to   {\ Huge   very large } .  You   will   also   want   to   include   \section   directives   to   structure   your   docu- ment.   You   can   use   \label   and   \ref   commands   to   add   references   to   different sections   as   follows:  \ section { Introduction }  \ label { sec:intro }  Some intro text.  \ section { Another Section }  \ label { sec:nother }  Please refer back to Section   \ ref { sec:intro } .  Mathematical Typesetting  In   case   you   hadn’t   guessed,   all   the   Algorithmic   Foundations   tutorial   sheets   were produced   using   L A TEX.   Indeed,   formatting   math.   equations   is   one   of   L A TEX’s strengths.   For   instance,   try   adding   the   following   snippets   to   the   body   of   your firstdoc.tex:  Below is an instance of a De Morgan rewrite rule:  \ begin { equation }  \ lnot (A   \ land   B)   \ equiv   \ lnot   A   \ lor   \ lnot   B  \ end { equation }  which   should   produce   this   equation:  ¬ ( A   ∧   B )   ≡   ¬ A   ∨   ¬ B   (1)  Check   out the webpage at   https://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/LaTeX/Mathematics# List_of_Mathematical_Symbols   for   more   details   of   mathematical   symbols   in L A TEX.   Note   that   you   can   use   the   $   notation   for   inline   mathematical   expressions, like   ∃ a   ∈   S . ( a   >   0)   and   so   on.  2
More Exercises  0.1   Make   a   Makefile  Remember   your   Makefiles   from   yesterday?   Write   a   Makefile   to   automate   the build   of   the   firstdoc.pdf   file   from   L A TEX.   It   will   be   useful   to   add   a   clean  target   that   removes   all   the   intermediate   files   (.aux,   .log,   .out)   generated   by   the pdflatex   execution.  0.2   Recall   your   Maths  Remember   all   the   set   equivalences   you   learnt   in   Algorithmic   Foundations? Typeset   them   in   a   L A TEX   document.   I’ll   give   you   one   to   get   started:   it’s   a distributivity   rule   . . .  A   ∪   ( B   ∩   C )   ≡   ( A   ∪   B )   ∩   ( A   ∪   C )   (2)  \ begin { equation }  A   \ cup   (B   \ cap   C)   \ equiv   (A   \ cup   B)   \ cap   (A   \ cup   C)  \ end { equation }  0.3   Timetabling  Check   out the info   at   https://webmaster.iit.edu/files/graduate-academic-affairs/ latex-table-help.pdf   to   find   out   how   to   draw   tables   in   L A TEX.   Armed   with this   information,   construct   a   lecture   timetable   for   yourself   using   L A TEX.   Each column   can   represent   a   day,   each   cell   an   hour   for   a   lecture.   An   alternative   online tool   that   helps   to   generate   LaTeX   tables   is   https://www.tablesgenerator. com/ .  Further Reading  There   are   plenty   of   L A TEX   resources   online.  •   tutorials e.g. at   https://www.overleaf.com/learn/latex/Learn_LaTeX_ in_30_minutes  •   textbook   at   https://en.m.wikibooks.org/wiki/LaTeX  3
