# COMPSCI4084_Programming_Systems_Evasys_Feedback

Course, Programming Systems  20.12.2024   evasys Evaluation   Page 1  Course  Programming Systems (COMPSCI4084) No. of responses = 44 of 312 (14.1%)  Survey Results Survey Results  Legend  Question text   Right pole Left pole   n=No. of responses  md=Median  dev.=Std. Dev.  ab.=Abstention  25%  1  0%  2  50%  3  0%  4  25%  5  Relative Frequencies of answers   Median  Scale   Histogram  1. Core Questions (for courses with multiple staff) 1. Core Questions (for courses with multiple staff)  Teaching staff explained the course material well 1.1)  Strongly disagree Strongly agree   n=44  md=2  dev.=1.2  45.5%  1  22.7%  2  18.2%  3  9.1%  4  4.5%  5  The course was intellectually stimulating 1.2)  Strongly disagree Strongly agree   n=44  md=2  dev.=1.1  45.5%  1  31.8%  2  11.4%  3  9.1%  4  2.3%  5  I am satisfied with the overall quality of the course 1.3)  Strongly disagree Strongly agree   n=44  md=2  dev.=1.1  43.2%  1  31.8%  2  11.4%  3  11.4%  4  2.3%  5  2. Online and Distance Learning 2. Online and Distance Learning  I did not find the technology a significant barrier to participating in the course  2.1)  Strongly disagree Strongly agree   n=44  md=2  dev.=1.1  47.7%  1  22.7%  2  22.7%  3  4.5%  4  2.3%  5  The course was fully accessible to me 2.2)  Strongly disagree Strongly agree   n=44  md=1  dev.=1.2  56.8%  1  18.2%  2  13.6%  3  6.8%  4  4.5%  5  I was provided with sufficient opportunity to interact with others  2.3)  Strongly disagree Strongly agree   n=44  md=1  dev.=1.2  61.4%  1  18.2%  2  9.1%  3  4.5%  4  6.8%  5  Technological support was available if required 2.4)  Strongly disagree Strongly agree   n=44  md=1  dev.=1.1  61.4%  1  15.9%  2  11.4%  3  9.1%  4  2.3%  5
Course, Programming Systems  20.12.2024   evasys Evaluation   Page 2  Profile  Subunit:   COSE: Computing Science  Name of the instructor:   Course  Name of the course: (Name of the survey)   Programming Systems  Values used in the profile line: Mean  1. Core Questions (for courses with multiple staff) 1. Core Questions (for courses with multiple staff)  1.1)   Teaching staff explained the course material well   Strongly agree   Strongly disagree   n=44   av.=2   md=2   dev.=1.2  1.2)   The course was intellectually stimulating   Strongly agree   Strongly disagree   n=44   av.=1.9   md=2   dev.=1.1  1.3)   I am satisfied with the overall quality of the course   Strongly agree   Strongly disagree   n=44   av.=2   md=2   dev.=1.1  2. Online and Distance Learning 2. Online and Distance Learning  2.1)   I did not find the technology a significant barrier to participating in the course   Strongly agree   Strongly disagree   n=44   av.=1.9   md=2   dev.=1.1  2.2)   The course was fully accessible to me   Strongly agree   Strongly disagree   n=44   av.=1.8   md=1   dev.=1.2  2.3)   I was provided with sufficient opportunity to interact with others   Strongly agree   Strongly disagree   n=44   av.=1.8   md=1   dev.=1.2  2.4)   Technological support was available if required   Strongly agree   Strongly disagree   n=44   av.=1.8   md=1   dev.=1.1
Course, Programming Systems 20.12.2024   evasys Evaluation   Page 3  Comments Report Comments Report  1. Core Questions (for courses with multiple staff) 1. Core Questions (for courses with multiple staff)  1.4)   What was good about the course? clearly Everything everything Explanation was comprehensive and professors were very approachable Great experience with the newly format of teaching for me! Help me learn to improve my programming skills I have learned python and how to manipulate data and make visualizations of it.And I refreshed some java and linux knowledgement.   It has deepened my understanding of the technology and helped me review many key points that I had overlooked. let us review the pyhon, java, unix. Nice and patient instructions if you ask tutors. Teachers are very nice and responsible The assessment pattern is quite modern, the final lab exam is what one would expect in coding assessments. The content is comprehensive The content is very practical, and it is all materials that will definitely be used in programming. The content of this course are highly useful The contents was quite good and it covers most of the topic mentioned in the lectures. The good thing about the course was the tests and the TAPPs. It enabled us to think about the questions, discuss and answer them as a team. Although, the results of it depends on how well you work in a team. The Lab Sessions were really usefull The slides provided for this course were pretty interactive and precise. The team application labs were fruitful. Team project was also good. This kind of course is not required at the Master's level. Focus on core strengths and develop foundations in research. It is expected that students taking the course will have some programming experience. How could this course be improved? 1.5)  Although this course only allows us to review programming, the teaching materials are almost basic content. If we want to learn advanced content, we can't find where to learn. Could be greatly stressful for those dont have any experience of Python programming!Maybe add a notice for those people to prepare well with it before the class beginning(even before the semester.) Please don't use eclipse for Java anymore.IntelliJ IDEA from Jetbrains is the better choice for Java Programming. Eliminate Java. Web-Development projects in 2024 is patently ridiculous. Instead, allow students to develop novel applications in the buzzing research thrust areas. The course should be flexible and allow students to explore their moral fibre. have personal task I hope there can be some review classes in the middle of the semester. I still hope that some explanations can be included in the course, which will save some time compared to self-study. I think it is enough I think we can replace quiz with some individual labs which may be more helpful for practical skills.
Course, Programming Systems 20.12.2024   evasys Evaluation   Page 4  longer time less content Moodle could be more organized Nothing nothing no,it's good Professors should explain the course material instead of just giving out the powerpoint presentations. Should add more details in ppts and clarify the tough points. The course is rushed leaving no time for other subjects. The not tracking of anything in the labs if it's not a teams work is not a good approach. That makes students to not to take the lab exercises seriously. Also I think after seeing most of the people is not familiar with java, we could have get some theoritical lectures on it. Even the lab exercise time was so limited for java but it is being considered as if they are the same with python in the final exam. The quizzes can involve more coding instead of rote learning as syntax semantics are difficult to remember. The ability to form groups by ourselves could have helped the project by balancing skill levels across the members. There was very less focus on Java part when compared to python. It could be improved. The team selection should be upto the students. The random teams are not what i liked... it wasnt good for me, and many of my friends. The team size of the group assignments should be adjusted, as it is practically challenging to split the tasks fairly among 8 members. A team size of 4 is recommended. This course was pretty fast-paced, and much of the self-study was required for this course. The portion of JAVA was not covered properly in the class due to lack of time, while the questions that came in the exam were much lengthy to cover in the stipulated time, which caused the exam being left incomplete. Wish the teacher could explain a little more instead of self-study  2. Online and Distance Learning 2. Online and Distance Learning  What are your experiences with remote lectures 2.5)  good (2 Counts) Good Great N/A (2 Counts) no No lectures. I don't understand the point of this course if you are not interested in developing programming concepts. Only lecture materials are given out instead of any teaching. nothing (2 Counts) pretty nice Remote teaching allows students to schedule their time more flexibly. Students who are willing to learn will find ways to study, regardless of the format Remote teaching relies entirely on the initiative of students. If students don’t want to learn, no matter what improvements the teacher makes, nothing can change the situation. Sometimes it is hard to understand the codes and the process is quick for me. The experience with the remote lectures was not so good, with most of the study work being correlated to self-study aspect rather than teaching the fundamentals. There was no remote lectures. I had attended all the sessions offline. There were no remote lectures, but the lecture videos of Ms. Mary Ellen were very helpful for me. This course is quite suitable for distance learning because it is mainly practical and self-study.
