# java-exercises

Java   exercises  Please see the separate sheet about running Eclipse if you are not familiar with the Eclipse IDE.  Task 1  Write   a Java method to compute and print the list of prime numbers less than a given parameter.  The method signature should be as follows:  void   printPrimes   (int   max)  Task 2  Write a Java method to compute and return the Nth Fibonacci number, which is a sequence   of  numbers where each number is the sum of the preceding two (see  https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fibonacci_number   if you can’t remember the details). The method  signature should be as follows:  int   computeFibonacci   (int   n )  Task 3  Implement   a method   computeScore   that correctly computes and returns the score that you  would receive in the game of Scrabble 1   for the string given as a parameter   –   that is, you must add up  the score of each letter in the string and return the total value. Refer to the following table of values  for each letter:  A: 1   B: 3   C: 3   D: 2   E: 1  F: 4   G: 2   H: 4   I: 1   J: 8  K: 5   L: 1   M: 3   N: 1   O: 1  P: 3   Q: 10   R: 1   S: 1   T: 1  U: 1   V: 4   W: 4   X: 8   Y: 4  Z: 10  If you encounter any characters other than those 26 letters, then they should not affect the total  score, but   you should be sure to consider both upper case and lower case letters .  The signature for the method must be as follows:  int   computeScore   (String   word)  1   https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scrabble   or   http://www.scrabble.com/
Task   4  D esign and implement a class   Monster   representing a (simplified) monster in a monster - battling  game. A monster includes a   type   (a String), a number of   hit points   (an int), a number of   attack  points   (an int), as well as list of   weaknesses   (i.e., types against which the monster is particularly  weak in battle, represented as a String[]).  Define a   Monster   class with appropriate fields with correct access modifiers, as well as getter  methods for al l fields and an appropriate constructor.  You should also define the following   two   methods which are used when monsters battle each other:  •   public   boolean   isWeakAgainst   (String   otherT ype)  o   This method should return   true   if   otherType   is included in this Monster’s  weaknesses   list, and   false   if it is not. Don’t forget to use   .equals()   to compare String  values instead of “==”  •   public   void   removeHitPoints   (int   pointsToRemove)  o   Removes the indicated number of hit points from the current mons ter. If the hit  point value becomes negative, then it should be set to zero.  •   public   boolean   attack   (Monster   otherMonster)  o   This method is called when the current monster attacks the other monster. It should  proceed as follows:  ▪   If   otherMonster   is   actually this monster (use “==” to check), return false  immediately  ▪   If either the current monster or the other monster is knocked out (i.e., hit  points == 0), return false immediately  ▪   Otherwise, check if the other monster is weak against the current monste r’s  type (use   isWeakAgainst() )  •   If it is not weak, remove only the current monster’s attack points  from the other monster’s hit points (use   removeHitPoints )  •   If the other monster is weak, remove the attack points plus an  additional 20 points (again, use   remo veHitPoints )
Task 5  Based on the   Monster   class c reated above, you should   refactor   it   into a set of classes that are able  to represent   every type of monster as its own class, instead of using the   type   field to distinguish  them. T he information that is common to all   monsters   will be retained in the   Monster   class, which  will be made   abstract , while other information that is relevant   only to one of the monster types will  be put into the   appropriate subclass.   The   sub types should be   WaterMonster, FireMonster,   and  ElectricMonster , with   the   followi ng prop erties:  -   A   FireMonster   ha s   type "Fire" and   is   weak against Water  -   A   WaterMonster   h as type "Water" and is   we ak against   Fire and Elect ric  -   A n   ElectricMonster   has type "Electric" and   has no weaknesses  d odge( )  Add an abstract   dodge ()   method to the parent   Monster   class   –   this method should return a   b oolean  value and will be implemented in th e subclasses to implement the modified   attack()   behaviour  described below. The method should have a   protected   access modifier.  The required behaviour for   dodge()   in   each subclass is as follows   –   you should add any   necessary  fields to each subclass to implement this b ehaviour:  -   FireMonster:   this method should alternatively return   true   and   false   –   that is, the first time it  is called, it should return   true , the next call should return   false , and so on  -   WaterMonster:   this method   should return   true   if the monster's hit points are   at least   100,  and   false   if they are less than 100.  -   ElectricMonster:   this method should always return   false   –   that is, an electric monster should  never dodge when attacked.  a ttack( )  The   final   piece of refactoring is to modify the   attack ()   method of   Monster   to use   dodge()   as follows:  -   First, call   dodge()   on the monster being attacked.  -   If the result is   false , the attack behaviour as before is implemented.  -   If the result is   true , no hit points are removed from t he monst er being attacked, but 1 0 hit  points are removed from the monster doing the attacking. The same rules apply here   –   if the  monster's HP goes below zero, then it should be set to zero.
Task 6  Your task is to write a program to check whether a giv en credit card number is valid or invalid. You  can read more about the process of checking credit card numbers at several websites, including  http://www.validcreditcardnumber.com/ ; the description below   is a summary of the properties that  we will be using for this lab.  The   first several digits of the   card number   indicate the issuing network of the card:  -   Visa   card numbers all start with   4  -   American Express   card numbers all start with   34   or   37  -   MasterCard   card numbers all start with a number between   51 and 55 (inclusive ) , or with a  number between   2221 and 2720   (inclusive)  The remainder of the card number is allocated by the card issuer. In general, a valid cr edit card  number can be anywhere between 13 and 19 digits; however, depending on the issuer, the valid  lengths can vary:  -   All   Visa   card numbers are of length   13,   16   or 19  -   All   American Express   card numbers are of length   15  -   All   MasterCard   card numbers are of   length   16  Finally, the final digit of all credit card numbers is a   check digit   –   that is, a digit computed from the  other digits of the card number. Including this digit means that simple errors in manually entering a  card number (such as a single mistyped   digit or permutations of successive digits) will be caught  because the card will not be validated. For credit cards, the check digit is computed using the Luhn  Algorithm ( https://en.wikipedia.or g/wiki/Luhn_algorithm ).  To test whether a credit card   number   is valid, proceed as follows (adapted from the Wikipedia page  above):  1.   Proceeding from the rightmost digit and moving left , double the value of   every second  digit . If the result of this doubling i s greater than 9, then subtract 9 from the product.  2.   Take the sum of the resulting digits.  3.   The credit card number is valid if and only if the sum is a multiple of 10.  As a concrete example, consider the number “ 7992739871 3”. The validation process   would proceed  as shown in the following table.  Account number   7   9   9   2   7   3   9   8   7   1   3  Double every other   7   18   9   4   7   6   9   16   7   2   3  Digits to sum   7   9   9   4   7   6   9   7   7   2   3  The sum of the resulting digits is 7+9+9+4+7+6+9+7+7+2+3=70, so the number is valid according to  the Luhn algorithm.  What you need to do  You must implement a   method   to validate   a credit card number.   The method signature should be as  follows:
boolean   checkCard Number   (String   cardNumber )  Y our   method   should   carry out all of the   checks listed on the previous pag e   and should return   true   if  the   card   number is valid and   false   if it is not.   You can use the sample (fictional) credit card numbers  from websites such as   http://www.getcreditcardnumbers.com/   to test your code. Be sure to test on  both valid and invalid numbers!
