# Lab_exam_2019_past_paper

Programming and   Systems Development   201 9   1   Lab Exam  Programming and   Systems   Development  Lab   Exam  You will   sit the actual lab exam during your scheduled lab   session   on Thursday   31 October,   or  during a different time by   consultation with the   T eaching   O ffice.  During the exam  During the lab   exam , you will   use one of the lab machines in its default configuration .   When you  come into the exam, you will be   able to bring nothing with you. You are also not allowed to access  any previously written documents or code files from your home drive or the web. If you do, it will be  considered plagiarism.  As in a normal examination, communication between candidates dur ing the laboratory exam is  strictly forbidden.  A candidate who wishes to print a document during the exam should summon an invigilator, who  will collect it from the printer and deliver it.  A candidate may leave early, but only after summoning an invigilato r, who will ensure that  submission has taken place. Any candidate who experiences a hardware or software problem during  the examination should summon an invigilator at once.  Leave the laboratory quietly   when you are done ; the exam may still be in progress   for other groups.  Overview  This exam consists of two parts: part 1 requires   you to write a Python program, and part 2 requires  you to write a Java program. The instructions , allocated marks, and submission instructions are given  below for each part.   Note that each   part has a total of   24 marks   allocated for correctness, as  indicated ; in addition,   1 mark   for each part will be allocated for appropriate coding style  (commenting, formatting, variable names, etc).  Part 1: Python  You should write the code fo r each task below in a   separate python source file , as indicated below.  You should then submit   all source files   through Moodle   as described   at the end.  Python Task   1 : Database   [5 marks]  Create a new SQL database called   BookInfo   that will store a list of au thors and the books they wrote.  It will have two tables. The first table should be called Authors and contain the following data:  Name   Place of Birth  Agatha Christie   Torquay
Programming and   Systems Development   201 9   2   Lab Exam  J.K. Rowling   Bristol  Oscar Wilde   Dublin  The second table should be   called Books and contain the following data:  ID   Title   Author   Data Published  1   De Profundis   Oscar Wilde   1905  2   Harry Potter and the chamber of secrets   J.K. Rowling   1998  3   The seven dials mystery   Agatha Christie   1929  4   The picture of Dorian Gray   Oscar Wilde   1890  5   Murder on the Orient Express   Agatha Christie   1934  6   Harry Potter and the prisoner of Azkaban   J.K. Rowling   1999  Save your solution to this problem in a file   python_task1.py .  Python Task 2 :   Displaying database   [7 marks]  Using the   BookInfo   database, display the list of authors and their place of birth. The program should  ask the user to enter a place of birth and then show the title of the book, date published and  author’s name for all books b y authors who were born in the location they selected.  Save your solution to this problem in a file   python_task2.py .  Python Task 3 : Querying database   [5 marks]  The program should ask the user to enter a year and display all the books published after that y ear,  sorted by the year they were published.  Save your solution to this problem in a file   python_task3.py .
Programming and   Systems Development   201 9   3   Lab Exam  Python Task 4 : Writing to file   [7 marks]  The program should ask the user for an author’s name and then save all the books by that author to  a text   file   called   Booklist.txt , each field separated by dashes so it looks as follows (for example):  This file contents the following record(s):  2   -   Harry Potter and the chamber of secrets   -   J.K. Rowling   -   1998  3   -   The seven dials mystery   -   Agatha   Christie   -   1929  4   -   The picture of Dorian Gray   -   Oscar Wilde   -   1890  Finally, the content of the text file should be displayed as above.  Save your solution to this problem in a file   python_task4.py .  Python submission  Ensure your submission file s   are   named e xactly as they are supposed to (i.e.   python_task1.py,  python_task2.py, python_task3.py, python_task4.py ).  Go to your moodle account, and submit your files at the appropriate submission link:  Moodle >   Programming and System Design   > Lab Exam >   Python Submi ssion
Programming and   Systems Development   201 9   4   Lab Exam  Java  In this lab, you will create a set of classes representing playable characters in a video game, as well  as a class representing a player of that video game. The following are the main features that you will  implement   –   the remainder of   this lab sheet describes in more detail how the classes should be  created.  Every   Game Character   has   two   properties: a   name   (e.g., "Superman ") and   a set of   powers   (e.g., for  Superman, this might include Flying, Invincibility, Speed, and Energy Blast).  A   Pla yer   of a video game   has a set of game characters which they have already purchased .  During the game, a player will encounter a series of levels   –   and each level requires a set of  characters with particular powers. For example, one level might need characte rs with powers  including Flight, Strength, and Science. To begin such a level, a player must choose a set of  characters that supply all of the necessary powers. For example, if a level needs character with  Flight, Strength, and Science, the player might ch oose Superman (to provide Flight and Strength)  along with Doctor Octopus (to provide Science). If a player does not have characters that are able to  supply the necessary powers , they are not able to start the level.  Example  Assume that the   player has the f ollowing characters in their set:  •   Robin (providing Weapons)  •   Starfire (providing Flight and Energy Blast)  •   Cyborg (providing Strength   and   Weapons)  •   Beast Boy (providing Transformation)  •   Raven (providing Magic)  The following are the game characters the   player should choose in various circumstances  •   If the required powers are Weapons and Strength, they   should choose Cyborg  •   If the required powers are Flight, Strength, and Transformation, they should choose Starfire ,  Cyborg, and   Beast Boy .  •   If the required po wers are Transformation, Magic, and   Science , then this player cannot start  the level   as they do not have any characters that provide   all of   the required   powers.
Programming and   Systems Development   201 9   5   Lab Exam  Java   Task 1:   Power   (2 marks)  Note about implementation: all classes created in this   exam   shou ld be put in the   superhero   package.  You should create an enumerated type   Power   with the following values:  CLONING, COMPUTER, ENERGY_BLAST, FLIGHT, INVINCIBILITY, MAGIC, MAGNETISM,  SCIENCE, SMALL, SPEED, STRENGTH, TELEPATHY, TRANSFORMATION, WEAPONS,   WATER  Java Task 2: GameCharacter ( 6   marks)  You should then create a class   GameCharacter   representing a game character including the  following properties:  •   name   (a String)  •   powers   (a set of Power objects)  You should create a constructor to set the value of th e above fields wit h the follo wing signature  (note that this constructor uses   varargs   for its final parameter ):  public GameCharacter(String name, int cost, Power... powers)  In addition, your   GameCharacter   class   must   satisfy the following requirements:  •   Your   class must be   immutable   –   that is, it should not be possible to change any of the fields  of the class in any way after it is created.  •   The class   must have a complete set of   get   methods   for all parameters , but no   set   methods  o   Be sure that none of your   get   methods violate   the immutability of your class  •   You should provide appropriate implementations of   equals() ,   hashCode() , and   toString() .  o   It is fine to use the auto - generated versions of   equals()   and   hashCode()   if you want,  but y ou must write your own   ( non - auto - generated )   toString()   method.  •   You must write   descriptive Javadoc comments   for the class and for all class members (fields  and methods).
Programming and   Systems Development   201 9   6   Lab Exam  Java   T ask   3 :   Player   ( 6   marks)  Once your   GameCharacter   class is finished , you should implement a   Player   class to represent a  player of the game , making use of the   GameCharacter   class defined above .   Player   sh ould   a single  field:  •   The set of game characters that they currently own (represented as   GameCharacter  o bjects)   –   you can choose   whatever   data type   you want   for this field  Player   should also have   the following methods:  •   A   constructor that initialises   the   set of characters correctly  •   An appropriately named method to add a character to the set  •   A   get   method to re trieve the   field value.  Java   Task   4 : chooseCharacters   (10 marks)  In your   GameCharacter   class,   implement   one   additional   public method, as follows :  •   public Set<GameCharacter> chooseCharacters(Power... neededPowers)  Note that you are free to add any number of   private   helper methods that you want, but the above  should be the only   public   method in the class other than the constructor   and the   get   method .  This method should implement the behaviou r   shown above   in   the examp le :   given a set of powers,  this should return   the set of characters required to provide all of the requested powers, or   null   if it is  not possible to provide the powers .   If no set of characters can be found to cover all of the required  powers, this method   should return   null.   If more than one set of characters can provide the required  powers,   any valid set of characters   can be returned (e.g., in the example, a level requiring Weapons  and   Magic could return Raven and Robin, or Raven and Cyborg).  Java submissi on  Ensure your submission files are named exactly as they are supposed to   –   i.e.,   Power.java ,  GameCharacter.java ,   Player.java . Also   be sure that all classes are in the   superhero   package.  Go to your moodle account, and submit all of the above   files at the appropriate submission link:  Moodle > Programming and System Design > Lab Exam >   Java   Submission
