# Linux_Lab_10_10_2023_final

Linux Lab  Part 1  If you install a Linux virtual machine (or   install dual - boot or single - boot Linux onto your machine) then you  will get a full graphical windows - based interface in a similar manner to Microsoft Windows or Mac OS.   You  can use Linux to do most of your day to day jobs just through this   mouse - driven   des ktop interface, but this  isn’t where   the strength of Linux lies.   In this lab we will not be using the menus and icons on the desktop ,  but we will be looking at using the Linux command line and some of the powerful commands that  automate tasks compared to t he graphical interface.  Knowing the Linux command line is also useful since you may find yourself interacting with a cloud - based  computer using just the Linux command line. Or possibly a server machine within a   computer rack using  just console based comma nd line input.   But   even if you have a graphical interface (like on Ubuntu or a  Mac)   –   using the terminal command line can sometimes   be much more efficient than using the GUI  interface   (particularly when handling lots of files).  Logging into   Ubuntu cloud v irtual machine  We will   connect with a   University   Ubu ntu virtual machine using the command line   –   similar to how you may  connect to   a   remote server or cloud machines   -   using   the   “ssh”   command .  One way to connect to the Ubuntu virtual machine is via the “ Glasgow Anywhere Desktop” .   Double clicking t he  Penguin on this desktop will take you to the   “Glasgow Anywhere Linux Desktop”.  From within the   lab, you may be able to connect to the Linux virtual desktop by typing the following into a  terminal window:  ssh   your_GUID_u sername @10.224.160.71  (This will only work if you are on the University network   –   whereas “Glasgow Anywhere Desktop” works  anywhere !)  This is connecting to   a Ubuntu virtual machine at the University of Glasgow . You will get a   Unix console w indow  which gives you command line access to the remote computer.  Opening the Command Line  We will use the Linux Terminal, a powerful Command Line Interface that once learned offers more  functionality and flexibility than a point and click interface.  Today, we will start our exploration with three commands:  •   pwd   -   print the current working directory  •   ls   –   list the contents of the given directory  •   cd   –   change the current directory
1.   Type in to the terminal   pwd   and press return to execute the command. This will show you your  current working directory. The terminal by default opens in your home directory. Try typing in   PWD .  What happens?   _____________________  The Linux command line is case sensitive so when t yping filenames and commands, you must use the  correct case.  The Linux File Structure  There are two different types of objects that we will be working with: Files and directories. Files contain  user or program information, like applications or word d ocuments, music files, videos etc. Directories are  folders that contain files and other directories. The Linux file system is usually represented as an inverted  tree with   a special directory called the root at the top . We reference the root using the backs lash key ‘ / ’.  2.   We’re now going to change the current directory to the root. By typing   cd /   Remember to add a  space between the command   cd   and the directory   /.  3.   Try checking the current working directory as before to check things have changed  4.   We should now be in the root directory in the file system. We are now going to see what’s in there  by typing   ls   then   <return>  5.   ls lists the contents of the current directo ry. Compare what is in the root directory in your system  with the root directory in the diagram. What is in your root directory that isn’t in the diagram?  _________________ ____________________________________________________  _________________ ________ ____________________________________________  6.   The diagram shows a hierarchical file structure. We’re now going to navigate back through the  hierarchy to get to our home directory again. We do this using cd by typing   cd   home  7.   This takes us into the “home” subdirectory. If you now type in   ls   you can see   all the   directories in  this home directory. What are all these directories?   _________________________
8.   If you type   ls   - l   (that is minus then an “l” letter) then it does a “long listing” with more information  about the directories.   Can you access these oth er directories? (Recall how the file permissions  work.)   _____________________________  9.   Find your own GUID and   cd   into this directory.  10.   Again use   pwd   to check that we’re in the right place.  11.   Navigate back to root. We’re going to try using the tab key to help speed things up a bit.   Try typing  cd /h then press the ‘tab’ key . Tab can help auto complete file and directory names which is really  useful for long file paths both to save time typing an d make sure that the path is right.  12.   Tab can also be used to make suggestions. In the root directory   try typing cd /m then tab tab . What  suggestions does it make ?   _____________________________  13.   Try navigating through a few different directories using tab t o make suggestions  14.   We’re going to go back to root and try typing   cd ~   What does this command do ?   (Use   pwd   to see  what directory you have gone back into.)   _____________________________  15.   We want to see whether the file passwd exists in the directory /etc  16.   N avigate to /etc and try ls  This returns a whole load of results and what would be helpful would be some way to filter them. We’re  going to use a special character to help filter our results. The * character is called a wildcard, and we can  use it to stand for any character, or any g roup of characters. For example   b*d   could stand for   bad ,   bed ,   bud ,  band ,   ballad ,   broad , or even just   bd  17.   Try   ls p*   This will list all the files starting with p and will list all the directories (and contents of the  directories) that start with p. This c an get a bit confusing.  18.   To tell it   to   stop listi ng   everything in the directories, we need to use a command line option.  Type   ls   – d p*   The   – d for ls option tells Linux to list the names of the directories but not their  contents. We should now be able to   see our   passwd   file.   (Try   man ls   to read about the “ - d”  command line option used for the ls command.)  19.   We can also narrow things down a bit further in a number of ways. Using   ls   – d   how many files or  directories can we see using  a.   pa* _____________  b.   pas* _____________  c.   *d _____________  d.   p*d _____________  20.   How would you list all files starting with p and containing the letter d? __________________  To help you reflect on what you have just covered please fill in the blanks in the table below
Part 2  Part   1   Review   Questions  1.   Open a terminal and   write down the current working directory ______________________  2.   Switch to the root directory. Which command did you use __________________________  3.   How many files and directories in /etc end with the letter ‘p’ ________________________  4.   How many files an d directories in /etc end with the letter ‘f’ and contain a ‘q’ ___________  5.   Switch back to your home directory. What command did you use _____________________  Relative Addressing  In the previous section, we practiced switch between directories in the file structure using cd to change  directory, pwd to show the current directory and ls to show the contents of the current directory.   In this  part   we’re going to extend this and start l ooking at the concept of addressing. In particular, relative  addressing. Anytime we start a file path from the root directory, we call it absolute addressing. We know  that we’re using absolute addressing when our file path starts with   / .   For example  cd   /home/mireilla  gets us to mireilla’s home directory wherever we are in the file system.  If we don’t start with the   /   Linux uses the path for the current working directory.  6)   Let’s type in   cd /home   to get to the directory home in the root directory.   List the contents of the  directory. What do you find in this directory _____________________________________________  7)   We can now relative addressing to go straight to the mireilla directory without having to address it from  the root directory. Type   cd   your_GUID   <tab>   (note the lack of the   /   that we use for absolute  addressing. Without this   /   we use relative addressing and we work from the current working directory.  8)   Go to   /usr   and list the contents.  9)   Now go straight to   sbin   and list the contents using relative addressing. What two commands did you  use__________________________________________________________________________
We now know how to step one step downwards through our file structure but how do we move back up?  W e’re now going to introduce two more special symbols that like   /   and   ~   allow us to navigate the file  system in different ways.  10)   Go to   your home directory .  11)   Type in   cd ..   Where are you in the file system now and what do you think   ..   stands for?  __________________________________________________________________________________  12) Now try   cd .   Where are you in the file system now?  _______________________________________ ___________________________________________  13) Move to a different directory and try again. what do you think   .   stands for?  __________________________________________________________________________________  ..   allows you to reference the parent dire ctory whereas   .   allows you to reference the current directory. A lot  of the time we can reference the current directory without using . We will see examples later of when we  need it, but for now it is enough to know that if we were in the   /home   directory,   the command   cd mireilla  would be equivalent to   cd ./mireilla   and the command   ls .   is equivalent to   ls  14)   Go to your home directory. Using relative addressing only and in one command only, how would  you move to the root directory? _________________________ ______________________________  15)   We can use both absolute and relative addressing with commands other than   cd . Go to the home  directory and type in   ls /dev   to list all the files and folders in the /dev directory (note that you haven’t used  cd so are stil l in your home directory).  16)   Now using relative addressing only, and in one command, list the contents of   /etc . What command  did you use? ______________________________________________________________  17)   We can also combine file paths with the   *   wildcard we saw in the previous lab. Using relative  addressing only, and in one command, how would you list all the fil es in the   /etc   directory that start with  the letter   d   and contain an   n ? _____________________________________________________  18)   Practice, practice practice !!!! The best way to get use to navigating the file system is to practice. Try  as many examples as   you need moving up and down the file system until you feel that you are comfortable.  Creating Files & Directories  There are lots of different commands we can use to create a new file in linux. To just create an empty file  we can use the touch co mmand.  19)   Make sure that you’re in your home directory ( you can actually go to your home directory by just typing  cd   without any arguments) . Try typing   touch touchtest.txt   and check that the file has been created. To  create multiple files at the one   time, we can use touch with many parameters with a space in between  (e . g .   touch file1 file2 file3).  20)   Check that it’s empty by   typing   cat touchtest.txt   . The command cat prints out the contents of the file  that you give it. This confirms the file is empt y.  21)   Alternatively try opening it from the command line by typing   vi   touchtest.txt   or   nano touchtest.txt .  (Remember you can use <tab> completion for the filename to quickly type it.)
( Also n ote that you get out of the   vi   editor using   the commands   “ :q!”   to quit without saving. The nano  editor provides information about what keys to use on screen.)  We can now create an empty file and edit it with   vi   /   vim   /   nano . How about creating a non - empty file.  Again we can do this in different ways, but today we’r e going to use   echo.  22)   Type   echo Hello World   What does this do? ___________________________________________  echo   writes text to the screen, but with Linux we can redirect the output to a file using the   >   key and  then supplying a filename. If the file do esn’t exist, it will create the file for us.  23)   Try   echo Hello World > echotest.txt . Use   ls   and   cat   commands   to find out what this command does.  __________________________________________________________________________________  24)   We’re now going to cre ate a directory in the current directory. This is really easy to do. We just type  mkdir testdirectory   which creates a directory called test directory in the current directory. How many  files now exist within testdirectory? _________________________________ __________  Moving, Copying & Deleting  The final things we are going to be looking at   in this part   are how to move, copy and delete files and  folders. Move and copy are similar operations but have slight differences in their outcomes.  26)   First of a ll we’re going to move a file into our new folder. We do this using   mv file_to_copy  destination_directory . Move touchtest.txt into testdirectory. Explain in words what effect this  command has ________________________________________________________________ ______  27)   Similarly, we can copy files using   cp file_to_copy destination_directory . Copy echotest.txt into test  directory and explain in words what effect this has on the file system and how it differs from mv.  ____________________________________________________________________________________  ___  _____________________________________________________________________________  28)   We can also use mv to rename files in our home directory, try   mv echotest.txt test2. txt   What effect  does this have on the file system? ________________________________________________  29)   Similarly with cp, we can create a copy of the file with a different name using   cp test2.txt echotest.txt  Try this and confirm it works.  We’re now finished with our new files and directories so we’re now going to clean up. Firstly by deleting the  file ec hotest.txt and then deleting our directory and all of its contents.  30)   To delete files we use the   rm   command (short for remove). Type   rm echotest.txt   to remove our file and  check that it’s been deleted.  31)   Try deleting testdirectory. What happens ? _____ ______________________________________  32)   We need an additional parameter to remove a directory and all of its contents. We do this using   rm   – r  directory_to_delete   Remove testdirectory and check that it has been deleted.
To help you reflect on what you have just covered please fill in the blanks in the table below.  Part 3  Some Useful Programs  Here, we continue on from where we left off in the previous section. Make sure that you’ve finished  everything in   part 2 before starting here. Let’s start with, a quick refresher.  Refresher  1.   Open a terminal. What does the command   ls ../../etc   do?___________________________  2.   Move to the directory /dev in one command, using relative addressing only. Which command did you  use? _______________________________________________________  3.   Go to your home directory, then create 3 empty files called test1, test2 and test3 with one comm and.  Which command did you use?  _________________________________________________________________________  4.   Rename test1 to become test4. Which command? _________________________________  5.   Make a directory called test_dir and copy in test2.   W hich two c ommands were required?  __________________________________________________________________________  6.   Delete all the test files that you created. Which commands did you use?  __________________________________________________________________________
7.   Delete test_dir. Which command did you use?_____________________________________  Some More Useful Commands  You really don’t need to know a lot of commands before you can d o a lot of useful things with the  command line. There are a large number of programs that you can combine in different ways to provide a  huge amount of functionality, however in day to day usage, we usually only need a small subset. In this lab,  we’ll be l ooking at a few more useful commands. In particular, we will look at   cat, head, tail, ps ,   kill , and  man .  cat  cat   is short for concatenate as it allows us to join two text file together. However, it has other uses which we  will now explore.  8.   Make sure that you’re in your home directory and create a text file called file1.txt containing the words  “Hello World”. If you can’t remember how to do this, look back to echo in   part   two.  9.   Create a second text file called file2.txt containing the word s “Goodbye there”.  10.   Firstly we’ll try cat with one argument. Try   cat file1.txt   What does this command do ?  ___________________________________________________________________________  11.   Let’s try it with a longer file. Use cat to show the contents of / etc/passwd. How would you do this  without changing directory?______________________________________________  12.   Now let’s try cat with two arguments. In your home directory, try typing   cat file1.txt file2.txt   What does  this do ? ___________________________ ________________________________________________  With   cat , we can use as many arguments as we want to join together the contents of as many files as  we want. We can use the same trick as we used in the last lab (when using echo) by using   >   to send the  out put of   cat   to a file.  13.   Now try the same command as before to concatenate file1.txt and file2.txt using the   >   character to  redirect the output to file3.txt. What does this command look like  _______________________________________________________________ ____________  14.   Finally we try using cat without passing it a file. Try the command   cat > catfile.txt   Then type in   One Two  Three Four <Return key> five six seven eight <return key> nine ten eleven twelve.   Finish by pressing  the   control key   and   d   together.   That’s   Ctrl + d.   You should see a file catfile.txt has appeared in your  current directory.  15.   Use the command   cat catfile.txt   to find out what the command in step 14 did?  ___________________________________________________________________________  We’ve now seen three uses of cat. To list the display of a text file (when we pass it one file), to join multiple  files together (when we pass in multiple files), and to create and write to a text file (when we pass in no  files). Cat   gives us a   low effort   way to view and create text files. When combined with the redirect character  >   this provides us with a really quick and easy way to manipulate text files. We can use this to redirect the  output of any command.
16.   Try typing   ls /etc > test.txt . What does t his command do ?  head & tail  17.   Using the technique in step 14, create a text file called testfile.txt, but this time with numbers 1 to 20  each on separate lines.  18.   What does the command   head testfile.txt   do?  _______________________________________ ____________________________________  19.   Let’s introduce an argument to head. Try   head   – n 3 testfile.txt . What does this do differently?  _________________________________________________________________  20.   Do the same two commands work with   tail ?_______________________________________  21.   Explain how the   tail   command differs from the   head   command._______________________  ___________________________________________________________________________  ps & kil l  We don’t have time for a full look through what is happening with linux, but to show you a little of what is  going on under the hood and to learn a useful technique we are going to look at the commands   ps   and   kill .  p s   allows you to see the current pr ocesses running on your machine. What is a process ?   When a program  gets executed, an instance of that program is created and run by the operating system. This running  instance of the program is called a process.  22.   Run the following command (this is writte n in bash script which we will be looking at shortly):  for   i   in   { 10..0 };   do   sleep   3 ;   echo   $i;   done  This   will count down from 10 to 0   –   essentially going around a   “for loop”   –   sleeping for   3   second each  time   –   before writing out the current number.   If you get tired of   how slow it is counting down …   you can  press Ctrl - C   keys and terminate it since it is running in the foreground   (i.e. connected to your keyboard  input).  23.   Running this command t akes over the current shell while it is   counting down from 10 .   If you type   ls  while this count is ongoing   –   nothing happens   –   until the end of the count when a   file   listing is  produced (since this command is stored in the keyboard buffer   and is executed on ce the   previous  command is finished ).   Essentially the shell   executes commands in order and   needs to finish one  command before it can start another.  24.   Now type:  for   i   in   { 10..0 };   do   sleep   3 ;   echo   $i;   done   &  The only difference is the “&” at the end   which tells bash that this should be run in   another shell in the  background   (essentially running concurrently or at the same time).   If you now type   ls   into the console  then this   ls   command will be run immediately while the counting continues !   ( Since the t wo processes  are running concurrently, or at the same time, with one in the background and one in the foregrounds.)  25.   T ype   ps   - f   at the console   when nothing else is happening.   How many processes can you see running?  What are their names ? The columns show th e UID (User ID), PID (Process   ID), PPID (Parent Process ID),  TTY (terminal or   output console the process is connected to), and CMD gives the command. Can you
explain the processes that are running when the   ps   - f   command is executed? Do the child - parent  pro cess relationships make sense?  __________________________________________________________________________  __________________________________________________________________________  _____________________________________________________________________ _____  26.   Run the loop in the background again and quickly do a   ps   - f   command. Do the processes showing make  sense? Can you see that the background loop is running in another bash   shell   process?   What is the  process ID for the shell that is running the loop   in the background ?  __________________________________________________________________________  27.   Isn’t it annoying that this loop takes a very long time in the background   and we cannot seem to stop it  printing to the screen?   If a program is misbehaving we need a way to deal with it. We can do this using  the   kill   command. Try   kill processID   (where the processID is your answer to step 2 6 ). What does this  command do?__________ ______________________________________________________  28.   Try ps again and check what processes are running. You should see a process bash. Try and kill the bash  process using its Process ID. What happens?_____________________________  29.   Some important   processes need an extra option to stop them. To stop these processes, we use the kill 9  option. Try killing the bash process with the   - 9 option. For example, if the bash process ID was 2165  type   kill   - 9 2165 . What happens and why?_____   ___________________ ____  man  We have saved the most useful command for last.   man   is short for manual and it allows you to find out  about other commands; both what they do and all the different ways that you can use them. We will finish  off by using man to find out about some of the commands that we have been using. First we will use it   with  pwd.  Type   man pwd   What does the manual page for pwd say that it does? __________________  ___________________________________________________________________________  29.   Press q to get out of the pwd manual page. Now let’s try it with ls. Open the   manual page for ls. We are  going to look at some of the options available with ls.   Use the up and down arrow keys on the keyboard  to find the description of the   – d option. What does it say?  ________________________________________________________________ ___________  30.   We are going to use man to find out how   to   list our current directory using long listing format. Which  option do we need? _____________________________________________________  31.   Use this option on   the / home directory . The   6 th column shows the size of each of the entries in bytes.  What size are all the directories?___________________________________  32.   Use man with ps to find out how to list all processes currently running on your machine (includes  system processes as   well as your own). How many are there  Less   than   10   Between   10   and   20   More   than   20
33.   What do you think   man man   will do? _____________________________________________  When finished this lab, use the command and keyword sheet to work through everything that we have  learned in these tasks.  Make sure that you are confident moving between directories and practice creating file and directories and  copying and moving them   to different places. Use man to explore all of the commands we have looked at  so far and see if you find any interesting or useful options.  Part 4   –   Basic Shell Scripting  H ere, we continue on from where we left off in the previous   lab. Make sure that you’ve finished everything  in lab 3 before starting here.  Refresher  1.   Use the   cat   command to create a file called numbers.txt containing the numbers 1 to 3 on separate  lines. Which command?_______________________________________________  ___________________________________________________________________________  2.   Create a file contain ing “Hello World” and a second file called joinedfile that joins the contents of  number.txt and your hello world file. Which two commands?  __________________________________________________________________________  3. Show the first 2 lines of numbers.tx t Which command?  __________________________________________________________________________  4. Write out the last 2 lines of numbers.txt to the file lastnumbers.txt. Which Command?  _________________________________________________________________________  5. Show all of the processes currently running on the machine. Which Command?  _____ ____________________________________________________________________  6.   Show the manual page for mv. Which Command?__________________________________  7.   Find the option in the cp command that will interactively ask the user if they wish to overwrite a file i f  the destination file exists  ___________________________________________________________________________
Shell Scripts  A script is a text file that contains a series of commands. This allows us to group together multiple  commands and run them using one line of code. There will be no new commands to learn in this section  (well maybe just the one or two to help with the scri pting). Instead we’re going to be using the commands  that we already know and combining them into scripts.  Creating Our First Script  A script is just a text file so we can use any of the techniques that we have learned to create files (like   echo ,  c at   or   vi / vim / nano ) to create our script. The one that gives us the most flexibility in our current set up  however is   vi / vim / nano . This program allows us not just to create a text file but to easily modify it, an  important fact if we’re going to be   developing programs that may have bugs in them.  8.   In you r   home directory,   create a directory called scripts   and   in   it, create a file called   helloworld  script and open it in   vi / vim / nano .   (You may want to   open   two console windows connected to   the Linux  ma chine   –   one for editing the file and the other for running it.)  9.   Our first script will be as simple as we can make it, just a single command. Enter the line   echo !!!  HELLO WORLD !!!   and save the file.  10.   Let’s try running out script and see what happen s. Make sure that we’re in our scripts directory.  Linux (in the default set up) doesn’t look in the current working direct for scripts so we will need to be  specifying directly the current directory using the   .   directory   when we try and run the script. Try  ./helloworld   Why doesn’t it work ?  ___________________________________________________________________________  Now there are different ways that we can run the script. Today we’ll focus on one that avoids the rather  messy business of Linux file permissions which I want to avoid completely given our short time with Linux.  If you are interested in looking at the othe r (more commonly used) method of running a script as we tried  above, you need to look at the   chmod   command that will allow you to make your script executable.   In this  section, we won’t be doing this. We will use the command   source   which will take our scrip t file and run it  without the need for it being executable.  11.   Now we use source to run our script. Type in   sour c e   helloworld  What   appears on the  screen?_____________________________________________________________________  12.   We can ru n the script from whichever directory we are in. Go to   the   home   direc tory .   Which  command lets us run the   helloworld   script without changing directory?   (Rem ember it is in the scripts  directory .)  ___________________________________________________________________________  13.   W e’re now going to modify our script to try a few things. First question. If we run a script from a  different directory as above, what will the current directory be? That is, if we use the keyword   .   in our  script, will it refer to   our current working d irectory, or the directory that the script is in. Modify our script   to  run   the   com mand   pwd   command   instead of echo   (make sure that you save it). Run it from different  directories. Is the current working directory in the script our current working directory or our scripts  directory ?__________________________________
We’ve now seen a script run, but why is scripting a useful tool? It allows us to do multiple jobs with the one  command saving time typing the commands while also giving us a series of commands we can reuse  whenever we want. We’re now going to do a longer s cript with   a s equence of com mands to carry out with  one command on each line . Remember, these are all commands that we’ve seen before.  14.   Create a script in your script s   directory   called   list_files   that will list all files in the   /dev   ,   /etc   and   /bin  directories that start with the letter   t . Use the echo command to la bel the output so we know what files  come from what directories _________________________________________  _________________________________________ _________________________________________  _________________________________________ ______________________ ___________________  _________________________________________  15.   Now let’s try something a bit more complicated. Create a script in your scripts directory that when  run creates 2 files file1 and file2, the first containing “Hello World” and the second cont aining “Goodbye”.  Have your script create a directory called mydir and in that directory create a file called output that  contains the contents of file1 joined up with the contents of file2. What does your script look like?  16.   Now create a script in you r script directory called cleanup that deletes all of the files and directories  created by your previous script. What commands do we need?  User Input  If this was all we could do with scripting, that would mean every time we ran the script, the sa me things  would happen to the same files. This would be quite restricted. What we need is a way of getting user input  that will allow us to run the same series of commands with different data and with different files.  17.   Create a script in the script dire ctory called   names . The script should contain the following  commands  echo   Enter   three   names  read   FIRSTNAME   SECONDNAME   THIRDNAME  echo   $THIRDNAME   $SECONDNAME   $FIRSTNAME  Describe what this script does.  ___________________________________________________________________________  ___________________________________________________________________________  ___________________________________________________________________________  Here we are using varia bles that store values. FIRSTNAME, SECONDNAME, and THIRDNAME act as boxes  where we can store user input. Then using the   $   keyword we can get the value back. We can give these  variables any name we want.  18.   Write a script called   create _ file   that asks a use r for a file name and contents of the file and creates  the file with the given contents. What does your script look like?  ___________________________________________________ ____________________
Command Line Arguments  The final scripting tool that I’d like to look at allows us to use command line argument. What do I mean  by that? Well if I wrote the command   cp   file1   directory1   the first command line argument  would be file1 and the second directory1. We can get access to   any number of these using special  variable names. The first is   $1 , the second   $2   and so on .  19.   Let’s write a script that simply list 3 command line arguments. Your script should contain only one line  echo   $1   $2   $3   Confirm this works. What happens if you e nter more than 3 command line  arguments?  ___________________________________________________________________________  20.   What happens if you don’t enter enough command line arguments?____________________  _____________________________________________ ______________________________  21.   Try rewriting the above script in 1 7   using command line arguments instead of reading the user’s input. What does  the script look like  _______________________________________________  _______________________________________________  ___________________ ____________________________  _______________________________________________  _______________________________________________  _______________________________________________  Try rewriting the above script in 18 using command line arguments instead   of reading the user’s input.  _______________________________________________  _______________________________________________  _______________________________________________  _______________________________________________  _________________________ ______________________  _______________________________________________  Option Extra  22.   Write a script   that   asks the user for an output file name and for the name of three directories. Create a file  with the appropriate output that contains the contents of all three directories .
Re view the pre vious   material   by filling in the following b lanks:

