# ProgSD_Lab_Exam_Feedback

P rog SD   Lab Exam   (October 202 3 )   general   feedback  •   Th e lab exam   was   an   open book .  •   In general ,   most of you did well   because the codes were marked manually . I f we had used  fully   automatic marking, many would have failed.   Please take care to read   instructions very  carefully!  •   Python average 16.2/25.  •   Java average 11.2/25  •   For both questions ,   w e   would   r u n your code . If   the output   is   correct ,   you w ill   get   the   full  marks .   Partial marks were given   to some codes when the output was incorrect,   but we could  understand the   intention .  We are very happy that   this year’s collusion level was very low   compared to last year ’s .  Python :   We   already covered   the se   topics.   Many students lost marks due to submitting incomplete  or partial solutions   or   late submissions .   Note that all   students were given the full 1 mark for code  style   this year.  It was   about creating   a program that should display   a   screen   as per the screen shot  requirements .   When   it was   run, if the windows appeared as   in   the example provided   (the  dimensions were not important) , you would get   5   marks .   However, if the name of the app   or  any   of the   text box es   or display button s   w ere   missing, you would get marks deducted.  The marker would   c heck the code if a database called   LibraryDB   was created.   If it is called  differently, lose   0. 2 5   mark s .   The   marker   w ould enter the book’s ISBN, title, author, and year  of publication and save the valid book details into a database named LibraryDB   by clicking  the   “Save”   button. A suitable message should appear when book details are saved.   ( 4  marks ) .   You lo se   0.5 if   there is   no pop - up message.  The   marker would then   clear   ALL   the windows   (as you can see from the screenshots, there  are many , not just the   first   four   data entry ones )   when the   “Clear”   button is clicked ,   and you  get   2 mark s .  The marker would   click the   “Display Books”   button ,   and   the system   w ould display all book  details saved in the database.   ( 3 marks ).   Unless this was really impossible to see, the way  these were displayed did not matter.   As we said, marking was very generous.  The marker would then check the validations: 1)   The system should ensure   that   no duplicate  ISBNs   are stored.   The system should display a suitable message if a book with the entered  ISBN already exists ( 1 mark ) .   2)   Ensure that the entered   year   is   not in the future   AND   not  earlier than   1450   (the approximate year of the first printed book)   ( 1 mark ) .   3) E nsure that  neither the   title   nor the   author   fields are empty. If any   fields are empty, the system should  display a suitable message.   ( 1 mark ).   A student would lose a fraction of the mark for each of  these validations   when   no pop validation   message   is provided .
For the last   P ython task, you were to simulate the interaction with ChatGPT using a local  function. The system   was to   connect to the ‘LibraryDB’ to retrieve real - time data to answer  the user’s queries.   The virtual librarian   was   to respond to queries such as:“ Recommend me  a book by   [author name].”   ( 3.5 marks )   “ When was published   [ book title].”   ( 3.5 marks ) .  To mark this   task , the marker would look inside the code to see   HOW   you wrote the  queries   and use those specific terms   to test the s ystem.   F or queries that did not work,  many students received between   a fraction of the marks (0.25, 0.5, 1, or even 1.5 marks)  depending on the code provided .  Java:   We used automated tests to check your code for all tasks. If a test did not pass, we manually  inspected the reason for the failure, in order to assign marks correctly.   All students were given the  full 1 mark for code style in Java as well.  Task 2a: Representing individual seats  Many students got full marks on this task, or at least partial marks (as indicated below)  T ask 2a.1 :   full marks were given for a version of   Seat.java   that had appropriate fields for  row,   seat number,   seat type, and availability; a constructor that set them appropriately; and  appropriate   access modifiers (private or protected) on the fields. Partial marks were given  not all of that held. 1 mark out of 4 for an empty class .  Task 2a.2 :   full marks if the row and seat number are validated correctly and an exception  thrown correctly. Partial marks if validation is attempted but   the checks are wrong or the  exception thrown incorrectly.  Task 2a.3 :   full marks only if all necessary getters and   one   setter were implemented   –   partial  marks if getters were missing and/or extra setters provided.  Task 2b: Representing a venue  Fewer students submitted this class , however many did still get full marks.  Task 2b.1, full marks if the   Venue.java   class   stored the seats in a sensible data structure, and  also had a constructor that   created the seats based on a String parameter. Partial marks if  the constructor did not   process the string correctly. Many students   created the class but not  the constructor , and many stored only a single Seat rather than a   collection of them .  Task 2b.2: full marks   if   getSeat   was implemented in a way that worked with the   seat  representation chosen. Partial marks if method is included but is not functional.  Task 2b.3: full marks if   printDetails()   is implemented in some reasonable   fashion ; partial  marks if method specified but not functional.  Task 2c: Representing an event  Not many students submitted a full solution to this part
Task 2c.1: Full marks if the   Event.java   class stored a venue and a price structure   and sets  them somehow ; partial marks for a n incomplete submission  Task 2c.2: Full marks if a reasonable implementation of   reserveSeat   is provided   (finding the  seats, reserving them, returning the total price) ; partial marks if   attempt is made but not  fully functional; 1/4 only for method header with little or no body  Task 2c.3: Full marks if   returnSeat   checks validity, throws exceptions as appropriate, and  updates availability if needed; partial marks for incomplete attempts.
