# Summary_and_Response_Document_(SARD)2024-25

School of Computing Science   Summary and Response Document   (SARD)  Course name:   Programming and System Development   (H) (COMPSCI4084)  Academic Session:   202 4   -   202 5  EvaSys questionnaire response rate:   44   of   312   ( 14.1 %)  Summary of student  comments  Response from Academic Staff   Action c ompletion  date   (actual or  expected,   if  required)  Action  owner  Positive feedback  The good thing about the  course was the tests and  the TAPPs. It enabled us  to think about the  questions, discuss and  answer them as  a   team. Although, the  results of it depends on  how well you work in a  team.  Great experience with  the newly format of  teaching for me!  The assessment pattern  is quite modern, the final  lab exam is what one  would expect in coding  assessments.  Thank you   for the comments.  Thank you for your appreciation of the  course structure and its instructional  approach.  The tAPP aims to foster interaction,  communication and collaboration, making  the class more engaging.  Explanation was  comprehensive and  professors were very  approachable .  Nice and patient  instructions if you ask  tutors.  Thank you for your appreciation of  teaching   staff.  Help me learn to improve  my programming skills  I   have learned python  and how to manipulate  data and make  visualizations of it.And I  refreshed some java and  linux knowledgement  let us review the pyhon,  java, unix  The content of this  course are highly useful .  The Lab Sessions were  really usefull  Thank you for the comments.  Indeed, ProgSD is a course designed to  refresh students’ knowledge or offer at  least the most basic knowledge of what a  student should already know.  Thank you for your appreciation.  Issues raised in EvaSys   questionnaires  The portion of JAVA was  not covered   properly in  Thank you for the comments .
the class due to lack of  time, while the questions  that came in the exam  were much lengthy to  cover in the stipulated  time,   which caused the  exam being left  incomplete.  Even the lab exercise  time was so limited for  java but it is being  considered as if they are  the same with python in  the final exam.  Previous years’   exam feedback also  referred to the duration of the   Lab   exam  and students also said they did not have  enough time to complete   it .   In response to  this feedback , this   year the exam took  place in December rather than in week 6,  as in previous years, giving students more  time to prepare.  Typically, if a student has completed all the  practical tasks , including attempt to  replicate the codes in the   PowerPoint  slides , the exam would be easier as they  are based on these tasks.   In some cases,  t he students   are   also given some crucial  exam   tips which   could h elp them   reinforce  their revision on the   practical   sections of  material covering those tips .   The exam is  an open book exam, so students can easily  refer to   the ir   solutions   to solve their  programming questions in less than that  time.   They would   copy their code and  make a few modification to it   rather than  spending time trying to f ind code   online .  However, if students do   not take the time  to complete the practical tasks, they will  face more challenges in completing the  exam questions on time.   For example, t hey  would be typing most   of   the code for the  first time and therefore   spending more time  debugging.  This course was pretty  fast - paced, and much of  the self - study was  required for this course.  longer time less content  Wish the teacher could  explain a little more  instead of self - study .  Given the goals of the course, it would not  be possible to   cover the material using a  traditional lecturing style. We have six  topics to cover in 12 hours, and we would  not be able to give enough time to explain  the slides (5 seconds per slide!). With this  structure, students are able to read  the slides in advance and apply the  material in tAPPs.  Also, other students appreciate this  approach to teaching the   ProgSD   course.  For example, one student said, “   The good  thing about the course was the tests  and the TAPPs. It enabled us to think  about the questions, discuss and  answer them as  a team. Although, the results of it  depends on how well you work in a  team .”  Another student added “   The   assessment  pattern is quite modern, the final lab  exam is what one would expect in  coding assessments .”  Although this course only  allows us to review  programming, the  teaching materials are  almost basic content. If  we want to learn  advanced content, we  can't find where to learn.  Thank you for the   feedback .  ProgSD is a course designed to refresh  students’ knowledge or offer at least the  most basic knowledge of what a student  should already know. For example, a  student provided this feedback comment,   “  let us review the pyhon, java, unix ;”  However , while   very basic, other students  find it challenging , “ Could be greatly
stressful for those dont have any  experience of Python  programming!Maybe add a notice for  those people to prepare  well with it before the class  beginning(even before the semester.)”  The   goal is to ensure that all students have  a similar skill level afterwards before taking  other modules in Computing Science.  still hope that some  explanations can be  included in the course,  which will save some  time compared to self -  study.  Professors should  explain the course  material instead of just  giving out the powerpoint  presentations.  Also   I think after seeing  most of the people is not  familiar with java, we  could have get some  theoritical lectures on  it.  Should add more details  in ppts and clarify the  tough points.  Thank you for the comments.  All material provided contain detailed  information. For example, in Python, each  concept is explained and screenshots of  basic implementation of the concepts is  provided. Java contains extra material as  well in the form of videos   produced by one  of the lecturers . The students have the  opportunity to meet the teachers during the  tAPPs and practical sessions to ask any  further clarifications of the concepts, if they  wish. They also have their team mates for  any additional help in understanding the  topics. For example, many students said  t eam application exercises were good  about this course. Students learn from  each other. As one student summarised  this, “   The good thing about the course  was the tests and the TAPPs. It enabled  us to think about the questions, discuss  and answer them as   a   team .”  The team size of the  group assignments  should be adjusted, as it  is practically challenging  to split the tasks fairly  among 8 members.  A team size of 4 is  recommended.  Thank you for the comment .  We will take   this on board.  Ensure team size   is  reduced , depending  on enrolment  numbers .  Web - Development  projects in 2024 is  patently ridiculous.  Instead, allow students  to develop novel  applications in the  buzzing research thrust  areas. The course  should be flexible and  allow students to explore  their moral fibre.  Thank you for the comments.  Web development integrates with many of  the skills taught in the Bootcamp.   For  example,   Python is   frequenly used with  web backend . Database:   Web apps  require database connectivity for   data  storage and retrieval. Building dashboards  or embedding visualisations into web  interfaces is a common requirement.  With a cohort of over 300 students and a  tight 6 - week timeframe , having the same  project for all teams ensures fairness and  consistency   as we ensure a level playing  field where everyone is assessed based on  similar challenges and opportunities. This  approach makes grading fairer and more  transparent, which is especially important  in such a large cohort.  W e   also   offer more targeted support during  the lab and supervision sessions
Context statement from the Course Leader   (optional):  We   are very pleased that   this year , more students than ever   agreed   and   strongly agreed   that   they  found the course stimulating ( 77.3 % --   increase of   12.4 %   compared to the previous year ),   the  teaching staff explained the course material well ( 68.2 %   --   incre ase of 3.3%   compared to the  previous year ) ,   and they   were   pleased with the overall quality   of   the course ( 75 %   --   increase of  11.8% ) . The percentages that disagreed and strongly disagreed were very low .  Although the project topic is the same,  each team has the opportunity to approach  the problem differently, offering room for  creativity, unique implementations, and  diverse perspectives. The deliverables  often show how innovative each group can  be within t he given scope.  Finally, students are allowed to   explore  their individual moral fibre during their  summer project.  The not tracking of  anything in the labs if it's  not a teams work is not a  good approach. That  makes students to not to  take the lab  exercises seriously.  Thank you for the comments.  We have always taken attendance during  the practical labs.  The se   lab exercises are individual tasks,  and students are expected to start working  on them from home, using the lab time to  seek help with any challenging exercises.  The only time students are expected to  work   in teams   is during the tAPPs and  team project supervision.  However, most teams   choose to   sit  together during the practical   lab sessions  to support each other.  And we take attendance to track who is in  the lab. However, we do not track whether  they have completed their   practical labs .  Student have often been informed that  completion of labs exercise   is very  important   as it can   affect the performance  during the lab exam .  Please don't use eclipse  for Java anymore.IntelliJ  IDEA from Jetbrains is  the better choice for  Java Programming.  Thank you for the comment s .   The  university lab computers allow students to  use Eclipse and VS Code for Java, so  these are the   tools that we support and  that the students must use for the final lab  exam.   It is not possible to install a third  Java IDE on the central computers.  Issues raised at staff - student liaison meetings
