# IDSS_-_SaRD_-_2023-24

School of Computing Science   Summary and Response Document   (SARD)  Course name:   IDSS  Academic Session:   2023 - 24  EvaSys questionnaire response rate:   26.2%  Summary of student  comments  Response from Academic Staff   Action c ompletion  date   (actual or  expected,   if  required)  Action  owner  Positive feedback  Assignments are  simulating and  enacting  Thanks for your feedback!   1/10/24   NP   & ZQ  course materials are  good and professors  explain them well .  Thanks for your feedback!   1/10/24   NP & ZQ  Teacher is perfect,  and I can learn a lot  from this course.  Thanks for your feedback!   1/10/24   NP & ZQ  The lab work is really  well thought out and  challenging. They are  so fun to do and the  sense of achievement  after completing them  is  probably the best part  about the entire MSc  for me up until now.  Thanks for your feedback!   1/10/24   NP & ZQ  Issues raised in EvaSys questionnaires  Less homework or  more duration time  for it  We have decided to change the  assessment format from 4 assessed  labs worth 6% each to 3 assessed labs  worth 8% each to allow more time for  completing the labs.  1/10/24   NP & ZQ  Maybe the pace of  class can be slower. I  feel like there is a lot  of   content in each  class  We have changed the format of the  course to allow more time for the  optimisation and probabilities section  and removed some of the databases  material to allow for a slower pace.  1/10/24   NP & ZQ  the lab is too hard to  finish  See above.   1/10/24   NP & ZQ  The course is quite  difficult.  Hopefully the slower pace will help  with the difficulty.  1/10/24   NP & ZQ  This course serves as  an introduction to  data science, so the  knowledge provided is  quite broad. I feel  The labs should be a direct application  of the theoretical concepts seen in  class. We have decided to slow down  the pace and reduce the number of  assessed labs this year, which should  1/10/24   NP & ZQ
Context statement from the Course Leader (optional):  This is a challenging module every year due to the wide range of background in the MSc students,  many of whom are not familiar with the mathematical (eg,   calculus) or programming (eg, python  programming) basics that we require. The course is fast paced, and challenging for the students.  To attempt and improve achievement, we have decided the following changes for 2024 - 25:  -   Remove some of the more specialised databases content to reduce the databases section  from 4 weeks to 2, allowing to increase the time to explain the optimisation and  probabilities sections from 2 to 3 weeks each (the actual content remain unchanged for  bo th). This effective reduction in content and pace is intended to give more time for the  lecturers to explain the material and for students to assimilate it.  -   Reduce the number of coursework from 1 formative + 4 summative (4x 6%) to 1 formative +  3 summative (3x 8%) to allow the students more time to work on each topic and seek  feedback and support from lecturers and TAs.  We hope that this change will address the   main issue raised by students with the course and  improve students’ attainment.  confused about the  practical  application of the  course knowledge.  Additionally, the  course only covers the  theoretical aspects,  while the  experimental  assignments  require code  implementation. The  transition between  these two aspects is  not well - guided in this  course, making me  feel a bit  disconnected.  allow more time for students to  assimilate the content and the  relation between lectures and labs.  Issues raised at staff - student liaison   meetings  None
