# Introduction_to_Data_Science_and_Systems_M

Course, Introduction to Data Science and Systems M  01.02.2024   evasys Evaluation   Page 1  Course  Introduction to Data Science and Systems M (COMPSCI5089(23-24)) No. of responses = 54 of 206 (26.2%)  Survey Results Survey Results  Legend  Question text   Right pole Left pole   n=No. of responses  md=Median  dev.=Std. Dev.  ab.=Abstention  25%  1  0%  2  50%  3  0%  4  25%  5  Relative Frequencies of answers   Median  Scale   Histogram  1. Core Questions (for courses with multiple staff) 1. Core Questions (for courses with multiple staff)  Teaching staff explained the course material well 1.1)  Strongly disagree Strongly agree   n=54  md=1.5  dev.=1.3  50%  1  14.8%  2  18.5%  3  11.1%  4  5.6%  5  The course was intellectually stimulating 1.2)  Strongly disagree Strongly agree   n=53  md=2  dev.=1.4  49.1%  1  13.2%  2  18.9%  3  11.3%  4  7.5%  5  I am satisfied with the overall quality of the course 1.3)  Strongly disagree Strongly agree   n=54  md=2  dev.=1.2  40.7%  1  20.4%  2  22.2%  3  11.1%  4  5.6%  5  2. Online and Distance Learning 2. Online and Distance Learning  I did not find the technology a significant barrier to participating in the course  2.1)  Strongly disagree Strongly agree   n=53  md=2  dev.=1.2  41.5%  1  32.1%  2  11.3%  3  11.3%  4  3.8%  5  The course was fully accessible to me 2.2)  Strongly disagree Strongly agree   n=53  md=2  dev.=1.2  49.1%  1  20.8%  2  13.2%  3  13.2%  4  3.8%  5  I was provided with sufficient opportunity to interact with others  2.3)  Strongly disagree Strongly agree   n=53  md=2  dev.=1.3  43.4%  1  15.1%  2  22.6%  3  11.3%  4  7.5%  5  Technological support was available if required 2.4)  Strongly disagree Strongly agree   n=53  md=2  dev.=1.2  45.3%  1  26.4%  2  15.1%  3  7.5%  4  5.7%  5
Course, Introduction to Data Science and Systems M  01.02.2024   evasys Evaluation   Page 2  Profile  Subunit:   COSE: Computing Science  Name of the instructor:   Course  Name of the course: (Name of the survey)   Introduction to Data Science and Systems M  Values used in the profile line: Mean  1. Core Questions (for courses with multiple staff) 1. Core Questions (for courses with multiple staff)  1.1)   Teaching staff explained the course material well   Strongly agree   Strongly disagree   n=54   av.=2.1   md=1.5   dev.=1.3  1.2)   The course was intellectually stimulating   Strongly agree   Strongly disagree   n=53   av.=2.2   md=2   dev.=1.4  1.3)   I am satisfied with the overall quality of the course   Strongly agree   Strongly disagree   n=54   av.=2.2   md=2   dev.=1.2  2. Online and Distance Learning 2. Online and Distance Learning  2.1)   I did not find the technology a significant barrier to participating in the course   Strongly agree   Strongly disagree   n=53   av.=2   md=2   dev.=1.2  2.2)   The course was fully accessible to me   Strongly agree   Strongly disagree   n=53   av.=2   md=2   dev.=1.2  2.3)   I was provided with sufficient opportunity to interact with others   Strongly agree   Strongly disagree   n=53   av.=2.2   md=2   dev.=1.3  2.4)   Technological support was available if required   Strongly agree   Strongly disagree   n=53   av.=2   md=2   dev.=1.2
Course, Introduction to Data Science and Systems M  01.02.2024   evasys Evaluation   Page 3  Comments Report Comments Report  1. Core Questions (for courses with multiple staff) 1. Core Questions (for courses with multiple staff)  What was good about the course? 1.4)  Assignments are simulating and enacting.  course material  course materials are good and professors explain them well.  Everthing  everything (2 Counts)  Have a deeper understanding of basic mathematical knowledge related to Data Science  How the chapters were designed  I can practice my code skill a lot.  idk  Its quite complicated , hard  Lab Exercises  new things  Teacher is perfect, and I can learn a lot from this course.  Teamwork  The assignments are pretty extensive so it gives a good grasp on the concepts covered during the lectures.  the concepts they introduced  The course structure was very well framed.  The couses discuss great details about basis in data analysis,and maths mentioned in this course reveals great knowledge of the course title  The lab assessed exercise which helped us put theoretical knowledge that we learned from teh slides of IDSS to practical usage.  The lab work is really well thought out and challenging. They are so fun to do and the sense of achievement after completing them is probably the best part about the entire MSc for me up until now.  The teachers are all nice and kind to help students.  This course is a good introduction to the fundamentals of linear algebra as well as data stored in machine learning, and the associated labs drive the students' practicality.  Useful content for machine learning related courses  very deeply introducts the basic of this lecture  Very good course  How could this course be improved? 1.5)  -  better teaching materials  By making it a bit simpler, or if teachers explain something about how to start solving tasks (actually they are so difficult) and it takes too much time to understand the task itself. Like what the answers should be and etc  idk  Lectures could be made more interacting with more use cases and instances.  Less homework or more duration time for it
Course, Introduction to Data Science and Systems M  01.02.2024   evasys Evaluation   Page 4  Making it less complex  Maybe the pace of class can be slower. I feel like there is a lot of content in each class.  More theoretical explanation and examples.  N/A  Nothing (2 Counts)  nothing  Provide better course material so that it eases students.  Shorter, more focused lab exercises Better explanations during lectures (less assumed knowledge, especially in mathematics)  some guidance on lab  stop teaching..Mathematics by blindly reading out of ppt slides. get professors Who have worked outside of academia in actual tech fields where the bulk of us students will end up and teach skills that will be useful in the workplace  The course is quite difficult.  The curriculum questions that are set up as well as the exercises are difficult to find a counterpart in the available materials. For example, some of the quiz or lab exercises are difficult to find in the course materials, and you need to find a lot of additional study materials. Would like to be able to give a complete list of what needs to be learned directly so that students can study and review on their own  The exam is a little bit hard.  The explanation sessions could be better. Instead of reading the slides we could have received proper explanations to the topics.  The lab feedback can present students possible ways for getting the right answer when they get it wrong. By the way I'm really nit picking here to write something.  the lab is too hard to finish  This course serves as an introduction to data science, so the knowledge provided is quite broad. I feel confused about the practical application of the course knowledge. Additionally, the course only covers the theoretical aspects, while the experimental assignments require code implementation. The transition between these two aspects is not well-guided in this course, making me feel a bit disconnected.  We need more detailed learning materials.  2. Online and Distance Learning 2. Online and Distance Learning  What are your experiences with remote lectures 2.5)  -  good  great (2 Counts)  I am happy with that.  I haven't taken any remote lectures. I prefer attending in person sessions.  I have no experiences with remote lectures  it's perfect.  It reduces the hardship on the road and the content is very clear.  N/A  NA  No remote lecture  Not bad.  reduce the complexity and portions  The lectures are patient enough to guide students.
Course, Introduction to Data Science and Systems M  01.02.2024   evasys Evaluation   Page 5  There are no remote lectures at all. However, there are some difficulties for me to understand all knowledge, because academic English for me is sometimes unfamiliar. Although I have tried my best to overcome it, I still feel challenged.  They are good  Very good  Videos were uploaded on time every time, so I was able to catch up on missed lectures
