# DS-welcome-slides-2025

MSc Data Science (MSc DS)  Welcome Talk  September 18 th , 2025  Dr Iraklis Klampanos
MSc in Data Science is an   advanced MSc degree  MSc DS and MSc CS are collectively referred to as  ☞   MSc CS+  It is intended for students   with an existing  undergraduate degree in   Computer Science .  (If you do not have this, please   email me urgently )  (These slides will be put on the MSc Handbook Moodle page  so no need to take notes …)
The School of Computing Science ( SoCS )  •   ~95 academic staff based in the   Sir Alwyn Williams Building (SAWB)  •   A research active school  •   Expertise in:  ○   Formal Analysis, Theory and Algorithms (FATA)  ○   Computer Systems Design (GLASS)  ○   Human - Computer Interaction (GIST)  ○   Machine Learning, Data Science and Engineering,  Information Retrieval (IDA)  ○   Education and Practice (EAP)
MSc DS Course Director  Dr Iraklis A. Klampanos  iraklis.klampanos @ g lasgow .ac.uk  Room 403, 1   Lilybank   Gardens, G12 8RZ  (will probably change soon)  The director deals with academic queries
First, always consult   The MSc Handbook  Your Glasgow University Identifier ( GUID ) will give you access to the  University of Glasgow ( UofG ) Moodle ( moodle.gla.ac.uk )  You will be able to access a page called  MSc (IT+) & MSc (CS+) Handbook   -   2025/26  •   This page holds   important information   about your MSc programme  •   The Forum function should be used for   asking questions  ▪   Your queries are likely to be shared with other students  ▪   Better than individual emails to staff  •   Contains info about getting Teaching Support help from   SoCS   Helpdesk
SoCS   Help Desk: Teaching Support Request  Always   use the   SoCS   Help Desk   for   questions   regarding:  •   Courses  •   Enrolment  •   Exams  •   Exam Submissions  •   Student Complaints  •   Student Support & Well - being  All   School of Computing Science issues and course enquiries should be logged here!  Link to the   SoCS   Help Desk given on the Moodle MSc Handbook Page.
Programme enrolment  Please follow the instructions in the Enrolment FAQ on the  MSc Handbook   Moodle page.  Semester 1 (Autumn): 60 credits, four courses  Semester 2 (Spring):   60 credits, six courses  Semester 3 (Summer): 60 credits, one project
MSc in Data Science  Autumn Semester 1 (September - December):  •   Programming and Systems Development  ( ProgSD )  •   Introduction to Data Science and Systems  (IDSS)  •   Research and Professional Skills (RPS)  •   Machine Learning & Artificial Intelligence  (MLAIDS)  Spring Semester 2 (January - May):   at least four  •   Web Science for MSc  •   Information Retrieval  •   Deep Learning for MSc  •   Big Data  •   Text as Data for MSc  Spring Semester 2 (January - May):   at least one  •   Cybersecurity Fundamentals for MSc  •   Human Centred Security  •   Cryptography and Secure Development  •   Cyber System Forensics  •   Secure Programming in Rust  Spring Semester 2 (January - May):   at most one  •   Secured Software Engineering for MSc  •   Internet Technology  •   Human Computer Interaction   -   Design and  Evaluation  •   Information Visualisation  •   Mobile HCI for MSc  Summer Semester 3 (June - September):  Individual Masters Project   which will be a research  project in an area of data science.
M Sc Dissertation Projects (Summer)  The dissertation project of MSc DS requires a   data science project  MSc Data Science  1. Information Retrieval, Recommender  Systems & Natural Language Processing  2. Data Systems & Data Applications  3. Machine Learning & Mathematical Modelling  4. Bioinformatics & Computational Biology  5. Vision, Medical Imaging, and Robotics
Changing programmes  Please see the information in the Enrolment FAQ on the  Handbook page.  MSc DS is a specialist course designed for students that  have already done a full Computer Science undergraduate  degree.  MSc Information Technology (IT) and MSc Software  Development (SD) are   conversion courses   which are   only  suitable   for people that have done undergraduate degrees   that  are not   computer science.
Progression through the degree  Autumn courses are examined in December 2025  Spring courses are examined in April/May 2026  Exams will be administered on - campus using lab computers  • Each exam will be accompanied with staff - created crib sheets  (1 - 4 sides of A4) to provide specific factual references  (e.g., syntax sheets or formulae sheets)  Your performance in these courses will determine whether you are allowed to progress to  the Summer Project (see Handbook for criteria).  If you are blocked from progressing to the Summer Project, there are   resit   exams for  courses where you get less than   C3 , to be held in August 2026.  These resits may enable you to progress to the project in Autumn 2026 (September - December period).
Course grades and credits  The   grade   for a course is the weighted average of  exam and coursework marks (e.g. B2, A3, C2)  Each course is awarded a number of   credits .  You are awarded the credits by attempting 75%  of the assessments .  You get credit regardless of how well you do.  Failure to be awarded sufficient credits (180)  means you cannot be awarded an MSc degree.  The Glasgow 22 - point Scale  A5,   A4, A3, A2,   A1   18, 19, 20, 21, 22  B3,   B2,   B1   15,   16,   17  C3,   C2,   C1   12,   13,   14  D3,   D2,   D1   9,   10,   11  E3,   E2,   E1   6,   7,   8  F3,   F2,   F1   3,   4,   5  G2,   G1   1,   2  H   0
The Dissertation Project  You will be allocated a supervisor and a project before the end of  Semester 2 (Spring) examination period.  Your research project topic will be determined by your supervisor  (potentially in discussion with you) to maximise the extent of your  learning during the project process and the likelihood of you  completing the project successfully.
On - campus Study spaces  •   The   UofG   Life App   will tell you about study spaces:  ○   Main Library  ○   James McCune Smith Student Hub  ○   McMillan Reading Room  •   You have 24/7 lab and building access to Boyd Orr.  •   Computing Science   students may also have  exclusive access to study spaces at the Level 4 Study  Zone in Queen Margaret Union (QMU).
What technology do you need?  •   A computer (PC or Mac) with a network connection  •   More specific software instructions will be provided in courses.  •   Zoom (login with your GUID) for zoom events.  •   MS Teams (login with your GUID)  •   BACKUP YOUR WORK ONTO Glasgow OneDrive or similar.  •   You may also like to use the   UofG   virtual desktop (accessible through a  browser) at:   https://www.gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/anywhere/  •   If you have problems, contact the IT Help Desk at  https://www.gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/it/helpdesk/
Moodle  •   https://moodle.gla.ac.uk/  •   You will be automatically enrolled on a Moodle page for every  course you are enrolled in on   MyCampus   ( MyC )  •   You will also be enrolled in some other pages  ( MSc Handbook , etc.)  •   Some courses will also have Teams sites set up for them.  •   Please ensure that the Moodle page relates to the   2025/26 year !
Communications  •   From us to you:  ○   Email   -   check your   UofG   email   Every Day  ○   Moodle   –   course - specific information for each course you are enrolled in  ○   Moodle   –   more general MSc information in the Handbook page  ○   Teams   –   for some courses.  •   From you to us:  ○   Academic matters:  ○   Your Programme Director (who is also your Advisor of Studies)  ○   Administrative matters:  Enquiries to the Teaching Office using the  SoCS   Helpdesk (see the   Moodle Handbook page   for accessing this).  ALWAYS use your   UofG   email account to contact us.
Communications Etiquette  •   Please only use one channel at a time  and do not send separate messages to multiple people   –  this causes duplicated work and may slow down a response  •   Please be patient  The standard expected time for a reply is three working days  •   Who to contact?  •   enrolment the   SoCS   Helpdesk or your adviser of studies  •   exams the   SoCS   Helpdesk  •   course issues during the semester contact the lecturer first  •   academic queries contact your adviser of studies ( programme   director)  •   student support queries (see later slides) the Student Support Officer  •   anything else the   SoCS   Helpdesk and they will pass it to the right person
Academic writing  •   All PGT students are required to take part in the Academic  Writing Skills programme.  •   Run by Student Learning and Development (SLD)  •   You will be invited to take part by email sometime during  the year.  •   More information can be found at  https://www.gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/sld/
Plagiarism and Collusion  Presenting someone else’s work as your own is cheating .  We take it seriously and are good at detecting it.  If you are caught you can be expelled from the University.  The handbook gives examples of what is and is not acceptable.  If in doubt, ask!  See the Handbook page for more information
Extenuating Circumstances  •   Extenuating Circumstances   refers to any circumstances which may affect  your ability to complete any part of your course such as attend an exam  or hand in assignment.  •   Our new Extenuating Circumstances policy which is launching this year  has been designed to better support you during a time of need.  •   You can apply for Extenuating Circumstances   here   or find out more  information on the   Wellbeing Home .  •   For extensions of up to 5 working days for Computing Science courses  students should also request these via the Extenuating Circumstances  system.
Getting Help …  Speak to your fellow students!  Contact:  •   The student support officer  •   Your   programme   director  •   Student Learning Development  •   If necessary, the Student Counselling Service  If you are ill or have other problems that affect your work,  let us know via   MyCampus   (i.e. Extenuating  Circumstances) and by talking with your   Programme  Director.
Careers  Glasgow runs a dedicated careers service with lots of career’s  information and events at:  https://www.gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/careers/
Student Representatives  •   Each degree programme needs class representatives  •   A short election will be held in the first couple of weeks.  Contact the programme director ASAP if interested .  •   Class reps must attend:  ○   A short training course  ○   Staff - student liaison meetings (2 per semester)  •   It appears on your transcript and is a positive experience
Teaching Timetable  •   You should find your lectures and labs timetabled on   MyCampus   and  UofG   Life App .  •   Your timetable is specific for you   –   someone else may have different  timetabled sessions   –   please attend the lectures and labs on   your  timetable since groups will be based on these.  •   Programming and Systems Development   (COMPSCI4084,   ProgSD )  starts next week  •   Introduction to Data Science and Systems   (COMPSCI5089, IDDS)  and   Machine Learning & AI for DS   (COMPSCI5100) start the following  week  •   But first enrol on   ProgSD
**** HOMEWORK ! ***  Programming and System Development  ( ProgSD ) Next Week  1.   Log into the   ProgSD   Moodle Page.  2.   Do the “Previous knowledge survey 2025 - 2026”  This is to assess your current knowledge   –   it does not  contribute to any marks  By tomorrow evening, Friday 19 September
Welcome to   UofG   …  Questions?
Welcome from your Student  Support Officer  How your SSO can help and support  you.
Careers and Employability: What you need to know  Postgraduate Science and Engineering Students  •   Boost your employability and register with the   CoSE My Future Skills Award  •   Meet employers and learn about opportunities at   Future Fest   (24 th   September) and the   Engineering and  Tech Fair   (28 th   and 29 th   October)  •   Find an industry mentor with the   Am plify   Mentoring Programme  •   Keep up to date with events and opportunities with the   Careers and Employability Information Point   and  CoSE Socials  •   Get career ready with the   ‘Your Future: Careers and Employability ’   online course  •   Connect with   Careers, Employability and Opportunity   to find jobs, to view and register for careers events  and workshops


